SPECIAL ISSUE:
SPOTLIGHT ON DRUGS

Societal Impact of Cannabis  

Impact of Deterrence on 
Decision-Making Processes of 
Drug Traffickers

Public Perception of 
Singapore’s Anti-Drug 
Policies

Singapore’s Anti-drug Strategy: 
A Sum of Experience, Evidence and Environment

BY PRACTITIONERS,
           FOR PRACTITIONERS

HOME TEAM JOURNAL      SPECIAL ISSUE      JANUARY 2020

PUBLISHER	
Home Team Academy

ADVISOR	
Puah Kok Keong

	
Deputy Secretary (Policy), 

	
Ministry of Home Affairs

PROJECT	
Lal Nelson

DIRECTORS	
Chia Yee Fei

GUEST EDITOR	
Stella R. Quah

EDITORIAL 	
Lim Jing Jing

MANAGEMENT	 Saif Haq

All correspondence should be addressed to the 

Home Team Journal Editorial Board 
Home Team Academy
501 Old Choa Chu Kang Road, Singapore 698928

Email: MHA_HT_Journal@mha.gov.sg

Those wishing to submit manuscripts should send abstracts of proposed 
articles to the Editor at MHA_HT_Journal@mha.gov.sg.

The Home Team Journal 
is a publication by the 
Home Team Academy 
in collaboration with 
the Ministry of Home 
Affairs of Singapore and 
its departments, which 
are collectively known 
as the Home Team. It is 
a journal by practitioners 
and researchers for 
practitioners and 
specialists in safety and 
security.

HOME

JOURNAL
TEAM

Copyright © 2020. All rights reserved.

No part of this publication (content and images) may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or 
transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, scanning, recording or 
otherwise, without the prior written permission of the Home Team Academy.

The opinions expressed in this issue are the authors’ and do not necessarily reflect those of the Home Team 
Academy or the authors’ departments.

CONTENTS

HOME TEAM JOURNAL  •  SPECIAL ISSUE  •  JANUARY 2020

FOREWORD	
02	
by Josephine Teo  
Minister for Manpower and Second Minister for Home Affairs

INTRODUCTION	
03	
by Guest Editor Stella R. Quah 
Health Services and Systems Research, Duke-NUS Medical School, Singapore

Spotlight on Drugs	
04 	 From Harm Reduction to Harm Prevention:  
A Cross-national Comparison of Eleven Countries

	
	
Stella R. Quah 

	
	
Health Services and Systems Research, Duke-NUS Medical School, Singapore

	
17	
Review of Empirical Evidence  
on the Link between Drugs and Crime

	
	
Gursharon Kaur Sidhu 

	
	
Research & Statistics Division, Ministry of Home Affairs, Singapore

	
24	
Societal Impact of Cannabis

	
	
Gursharon Kaur Sidhu 

	
	
Research & Statistics Division, Ministry of Home Affairs, Singapore

	
30 	 Costs of Drug Crime: Literature Review  
and Methodology 
Euston Quah, Wai-Mun Chia, Tsiat-Siong Tan  
School of Social Sciences, Nanyang Technological University

	
39 	 The Intergenerational Transmission of Offending  
from Drug-Abusing Parents: Understanding the Impact 
of Parental Drug Abuse and Incarceration on Children’s 
Offending Behaviour in Singapore  
Eng Hao Loh, Charmaine Ch’ng Wei Lin, Xiang Long Cheng  
Singapore Prison Service

	
52	
Public Perception towards Singapore’s Anti-drug Policies 

	
	
Suet Lay Liang  
Research and Statistics Division, Ministry of Home Affairs, Singapore

	
56	
Deterrent Effect of Historical Amendments to 
Singapore’s Sanction Regime for Drug Trafficking  
Yee Fei Chia  
Research & Statistics Division, Ministry of Home Affairs, Singapore

	
65	
The Impact of Deterrence on the Decision-Making 
Process of Drug Traffickers

	
	
Jasmin Kaur, Kah Shun Teo & Salina Samion 

	
	
Singapore Prison Service & Central Narcotics Bureau

	
81	
Singapore’s Anti-drug Strategy: A Sum of Experience, 
Evidence and Environment

	
	
Lal Nelson 

	
	
Research & Statistics Division, Ministry of Home Affairs, Singapore

The Home Team Journal serves as a platform to share knowledge among 
practitioners on homefront safety and security matters. In this Special Issue, we 
have brought together researchers from different backgrounds and disciplines to 
share with us their drug-related research. The articles provide insights on various 
aspects of the drug problem, from the social and economic costs on society, and 
the consequences of liberalising drug policies, to the effectiveness of Singapore’s 
anti-drug policies and the public’s support for them.

The battle against drugs is not easily won. It requires constant vigilance, especially 
against an international backdrop where well-funded interest groups mount active and sophisticated 
advocacy for the liberalisation of drug policies. Of course, they neglect to highlight the high costs to society. 
In this regard, several studies in this Special Issue provide compelling evidence. Sidhu found multiple 
studies spanning different jurisdictions that demonstrated a clear and unambiguous link between drug abuse 
and crime. In their study on children of drug abusers in Singapore, Loh et. al. found that children of drug 
abusers were more likely to be exposed to anti-social activities at home and anti-social peers. The study also 
found that one in five drug abusers who were parents, had children who later in life also went on to commit 
criminal offences.

Given the highly negative consequences on society, Singapore imposes stiff penalties against drug 
trafficking. The effectiveness of our regime is backed by evidence: two separate studies by Chia and Kaur 
et. al. found that Singapore’s severe penalties have had a deterrent effect on drug trafficking behaviour. This 
tough stance against drugs is strongly supported by the Singapore public, as shown in the public perception 
study described in Liang’s article.

This Special Issue would not have been possible without the contributions of many individuals. I would 
like to thank Professor Stella Quah, Adjunct Professor at Duke-NUS Medical School, for sharing her 
expertise through her role as Guest Editor. Her thoughtful comments have helped the contributors sharpen 
and contextualise the insights from their studies. I would also like to thank the contributors for agreeing to 
share their studies, and the administrative team for putting all of it together into this Special Issue of the 
Home Team Journal.

I am certain that readers will find the selection of studies useful and enlightening.

Mrs. Josephine Teo
Minister for Manpower and
Second Minister for Home Affairs

Foreword

2
Home Team Journal

Current global statistics on drug addiction - technically known as substance 
use disorder or dependence syndrome - show a marked increase in psychoactive 
substances use harming the physical and mental health of individuals as well as 
the welfare of families and communities. Psychoactive drugs’ destructive effect is 
particularly serious on children and youth. A clear example is cannabis. Children 
and youth are the most vulnerable groups targeted by the marketing of cannabis 
products, with increased Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) content in countries and 
jurisdictions where cannabis is now legal. The marketing practices used by cannabis 
producers in those locations involve all types of media, and one of the most effective 
marketing vehicles to reach young consumers is social media. Consequently, young audiences in countries 
like Singapore - geographically distant from the cities and regions where cannabis is legal - are just as 
vulnerable to the false marketing message that cannabis is safe. This Special Issue of the Home Team 
Journal addresses these features of the international drug situation today.

The articles in this Special Issue examine specific aspects of the global problem of substance use disorder 
from the perspective of its impact on individuals, families and communities. The authors apply their 
multidisciplinary expertise to the analysis of relevant aspects of the drug problem, drawing from international 
as well as local research evidence. The first four articles address the international situation and the other five 
articles provide evidence from Singapore. 

Applying a health sociology perspective in the first article, I compare and contrast two different approaches 
to substance use disorder - harm reduction and harm prevention - illustrating the arguments with current 
evidence-based research from eleven countries that offer harm reduction services. In the second article, 
Sidhu presents a “Review of Empirical Evidence on the Link between Drugs and Crime” examining studies 
on how drug trafficking generates and exacerbates crime. The third article is Sidhu’s review of international 
statistics and studies on the “Societal Impact of Cannabis” pointing to the adverse consequences of legalising 
cannabis experienced in jurisdictions that have implemented it. Economists Quah, Chia and Tan explain in 
the fourth article the main economic theories and measurements used to assess the “Costs of Drug Crime” 
internationally and highlight the nuances of their application to the local context. 

Articles fifth to ninth focus on Singapore. The fifth article is a study of the intergenerational transmission of 
offending behaviour by Loh, Ch’ng and Cheng. This team of psychologists compare the parental history of 
offences of two groups of young people, offenders and non-offenders. The sixth, seventh and eighth articles 
deal with Singapore’s legislation on psychoactive drug use from different angles. Liang presents the results 
of a survey on the local public perception of Singapore’s drug-related policies. Chia examines the possible 
deterrent effect of policy amendments, particularly the Mandatory Death Penalty (MDP), by examining drug 
trafficking case files four years before and after the enactment of the MDP. The eighth article by Kaur, Teo, 
and Samion scrutinises deterrence from the perspective of individuals serving prison time for drug trafficking 
offences. Nelson sums up this Special Issue by discussing the drivers behind Singapore’s anti-drug strategy.

Professor Stella R. Quah
Guest Editor
Home Team Journal Special Issue: 
Spotlight on Drugs

Introduction by Guest Editor

3
Special Issue •  January 2020

From Harm Reduction to 
Harm Prevention: 

A Cross-national Comparison 
of Eleven Countries

Stella R. Quah

Duke-NUS Medical School, National University of Singapore

Abstract 

Background – International figures show an increase in both psychoactive substance use and the 
harms (physical, psychological and social) that it brings. Scientific evidence from different fields 
of knowledge demonstrates that the use of psychoactive substances leads to addiction (substance 
use disorder) and inflicts serious harm to drug users, particularly to people who inject drugs, their 
families and their larger community. 

Objective – This article discusses two different approaches to substance use disorder: harm 
reduction and harm prevention. Data from 11 countries that follow the ‘harm reduction’ approach 
and experience unintended collateral harms are presented to illustrate the situation. 

Findings – The steady growth and seriousness of harms caused by psychoactive substance 
disorder worldwide indicate the importance of considering a different approach: harm prevention. 
Harm prevention is a multipronged approach comprising all concerted efforts by civil society, the 
government, and the private sector, to use prevention, rehabilitation and treatment to eradicate the 
harm that substance use disorder exacts upon individuals and communities. The harm prevention 
approach is evidence-based and incorporates current biomedical and psychosocial research on 
drug addiction and its predictors. Why do we need a multipronged approach? Four decades of 
research show that the problem of psychoactive substance use disorder requires comprehensive 
and multipronged solutions. Focusing only on individual addicts ignores the drug-promoting socio-
cultural environment, the multifactorial nature of drug addiction, and the pathway to addiction. 
The pathway towards substance addiction comprises biological, psychological and sociocultural 
dimensions and follows three stages: misuse, abuse and addiction. Examining why individuals 
enter this path and proceed along it, research demonstrates that the biological, psychological and 
sociocultural dimensions of substance addiction are interlinked, and that young individuals and 
those with a genetic predisposition to drug addiction are particularly vulnerable. 

4
Home Team Journal

Introduction

The problem of psychoactive substance use is 
global. The United Nations Office on Drugs and 
Crime (UNODC) estimate that in 2017 about “5.5% 
of the global population aged 15-64”, that is, “271 
million people worldwide … had use drugs at least 
once the previous year”, an increase from 4.8% in 
2009 (UNODC, 2019a:2). The number of years 
of healthy life lost to the use of drugs worldwide 
has risen from about 25 million in 1991 to over 40 
million in 2017 (UNODC, 2019a:20). Moreover, 
“opioids present the greatest harm to the health 
of users”: the worldwide number of ‘past-year’ 
opioid users in 2017 was estimated at 53.4 million 
and “opioids accounted for 110,000 (66%) of the 
167,000 deaths attributed to drug use disorders” 
(UNODC, 2019a:12). Perhaps more concerning 
is the continued upward trend of adolescent drug 
users (12 to 17 year-olds), considering scientific 
evidence that the brain is not fully developed yet 
at that age and thus adolescents are even more 
vulnerable than older users to long-term serious 
harms caused by psychoactive drugs consumption 
(UNODC, 2019a: 13-14). 

The pathway to drug addiction typically begins 
as recreation (‘trying a drug for fun’) or misuse 
leading to abuse and finally dependence. The 
serious harm that psychoactive substances inflict 
on addicted individuals, their families and their 
larger community is demonstrated by scientific 
evidence and is acknowledged by governments 
and civil society worldwide. Of the large variety 
of attempted solutions, two main but contrasting 
efforts to deal with the problem stand out. One is 
the harm reduction approach advocating the right 
to use drugs and what it deems as ways to use drugs 
‘safely’. The other is the harm prevention approach 
that focuses on the basic right of individuals to 
health and on the crucial role of prevention and 
rehabilitation. Much has been said and written about 
harm reduction but less about harm prevention. 
Thus, the objective of this brief discussion is to 
compare both approaches, highlighting the most 
important features of each. 

The empirical evidence presented in this discussion 
of the two approaches are based on 11 countries 
where harm reduction services are available: 
Australia, New Zealand, Canada and the United 
Kingdom (Commonwealth countries); Germany, 
Portugal, Sweden and the Netherlands (European 
Union members); and Indonesia, Malaysia and 
Thailand (ASEAN members). The data sources 
comprise published scientific studies, official 
databases, and reports published by the respective 
national governments, agencies, as well as 
international organisations such as the United 
Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), 
the World Health Organization (WHO), UNAIDS, 
and the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and 
Drug Addiction (EMCDDA), among others. 

While the sources are official, a caveat is in order. 
The main challenge for studies on psychoactive 
substance users - people who use drugs (PWUD) 
in general and people who inject drugs (PWID) 
- is the nature of the data. Given the difficulties 
of reaching the entire population of PWUD and 
PWID, most statistics are estimates. One common 
hurdle is reaching the PWUS/PWID population. 
Regular illicit drug consumption, particularly 
drug injecting, usually takes place in private and 
concealed locations. Cross-national studies face 
an additional challenge: not all countries collect 
or report annual data systematically or use the 
same standard classification for all drug-related 
problems. The EMCDDA publishes figures on 
PWID as well as prevalence of ‘high-risk drug 
users’ (a category that combines intensive use of 
psychoactive drugs as well as drug injecting). The 
most recent EMCDDA data - that is, 2016-2017 - 
on five of the 11 countries, show that the problem 
of ‘high-risk’ drug use is more intense in the United 
Kingdom (prevalence of 8.09 per 1,000 population 
aged 15-64) and Portugal (4.97) compared to 
Germany (1.95) and the Netherlands (1.25). There 
are no figures on ‘high-risk drug users’ for the other 
seven countries in the study. The number of drug-
related deaths suggest an increasing trend from 

5
Special Issue •  January 2020

2010 to 2018, with the exception of Australia that 
reported a sharp decrease during the same period 
(see Table 1). Unfortunately, no countrywide 
statistics on drug-related deaths are available for 
the three Asian countries, and the most recent data 
on New Zealand are for 2010-2014.  

The discussion of both approaches is presented 
in four steps: (1) what is harm reduction; (2) the 
unintended collateral harm of harm reduction 
services; (3) what is harm prevention; and (4) how 
the harm prevention approach averts collateral harm. 

The Harm Reduction Approach

Harm reduction is the approach promoted by Harm 
Reduction International (HRI), a non-governmental 

organisation initiated in England in 1990 (HRI, 
2012, 2019a). Due to its strong advocacy character, 
some experts consider HRI as ‘a movement’ (Van 
Wormer and Davies, 2003:27). HRI explains that 
“there is no universally accepted definition of 
harm reduction” but that harm reduction “refers 
to policies, programmes and practices that aim to 
minimize negative health, social and legal impacts 
associated with drug use, drug policies and drug 
laws” (HRI, 2019a). HRI declares that 

Recognising that only a small percentage 
of people who use drugs experience 
problematic use, harm reduction may also 
help people maximize any potential benefits 
that they gain from using drugs. … Many 

Table 1. Drug-related Deaths, High-Risk Drug Users, Injecting, NSP and Hepatitis C Prevalence a

6
Home Team Journal

people who use drugs do not need treatment, 
and those experiencing problems associated 
with drug use may be unwilling or unable to 
enter abstinence-only treatment for myriad 
reasons. While abstinence from drug use 
may be the goal for some people who use 
drugs this is an individual choice and 
should not be imposed, or regarded as the 
only option. (HRI, 2019a).

Accordingly, HRI promotes ‘safer’ use of “illicit 
and licit drugs”. HRI defines ‘safer use’ as drug use 
that is less likely to spread blood-borne infections, 
mainly HIV, hepatitis B, and hepatitis C infections. 
HRI fosters four main free or “inexpensive” 
services for the ‘safe use’ of drugs: distribution 

of clean injecting kits through needle and syringe 
programmes 
(NSP); 
‘supervised 
injection 
facilities’ (SIFs) also known as ‘Drug Consumption 
Rooms’ (DCRs); and naloxone peer-distribution 
programme (naloxone is a drug to counter opioid 
overdose) - also known as ‘Take-Home-Naloxone’ 
(THN) in the United Kingdom (HRI, 2019a). A 
supplementary harm reduction service offered in 
some European cities is street-mounted automatic 
injection kit dispensers (AIKD) that “enable the 
self-operated exchange of injection equipment” 
(EMCDDA, 2019:5). 

Sources and notes:

(a) Countries vary in the time period (range of years) used to report data. Some use 
range of years while others report specific year. This table shows time periods 
to facilitate comparison. Figures for all countries are estimations as provided 
in the sources.

1. 	 EMCDDA (2019b) Country Drug Reports; Government of Canada (2019); 
Morrow (2018: 59). Australia’s earliest figure is for the decade 2001-2012 
(Roxburgh et. al., 2017) but the 1,795 drug-induced deaths occurred in one 
year, 2017 (AIHW (2019).

2. 	 NSP (Needle and Syringe Programme). Sources: HRI (2012); Stone at al 
(2018). Data for 2017-2018 calculated from UNAIDS (2019) and EMCDDA 
(2019a: 92) New Zealand’s 2011-2014 figure was calculated based on 
its estimation of “10,000 needle exchange attendees” in 2014 (UNAIDS, 
2015b:5) and its total population in 2013 (WHO, 2015)

3. 	 Sources for the period 2012-2013: UNAIDS (2015b); WHO (2015). For the 
period 2017-2018: Stone et. al. (2018) and UN (2019). 

4. EMCDDA (2019b) Country drug reports http://www.emcdda.europa.eu/
countries/drug-reports/2019/. The EMCDDA (2019c) defines ‘high-risk drug 
use’ as “the use of psychoactive substances (excluding alcohol, tobacco and 
caffeine) intensively and/or by high-risk routes of administration [injecting] in 
the last 12 months”. 

5. 	 The sources for the 2005-2014 figures are Mathers et. al. (2010); Romelsjo 
et. al. (2010:16225); IDT (2010a); AIHW (2015a), and INCB (2015:96). The 
UK are for 2005/06 and 2007/08. Portugal’s figures are for 2003, 2007 and 
2012. The figure for New Zealand refers to persons with “severe problem 
with opioid abuse” (INCB, 2015:96). Data for 2017-2018 are from UNODC 
(2019) Table 3.1. 

6.	 UNAIDS (2019) Country Factsheets 
	
https://www.unaids.org/en/regionscountries/countries/ 

7.	 Malaysian National Anti-Drug Agency (2019) Drugs Statistics-Laman Web 
Rasmi Agensi Anti Dadah Kebangsaan. The figure refers to users of opioids, 
methamphetamine and amphetamine-type stimulants in 2018.

Three significant and related global developments 
over the past decade challenge the harm reduction 
goal of ‘safe’ drug use. First, scientific evidence 
of serious health damage caused by psychoactive 
substance use is increasing (e.g., UNODC 2019; 

7
Special Issue •  January 2020

WHO 2019a; Degenhardt et. al., 2017; Jekeran 
et. al, 2017). Second, scientists, policy makers 
and law enforcement experts agree that the last 
stage of the drug use trajectory, substance use 
disorder, is an illness. More specifically, it is a 
chronic rather than acute illness and it is labelled 
‘dependence syndrome’ in the 10th revision of the 
International Statistical Classification of Diseases 
or ICD-10 (WHO, 2010). The American Psychiatric 
Association (APA) and the international medical 
community appear to now accept the evidence-
based notion that a person affected by ‘dependence 
syndrome’, also known as ‘substance use disorder’, 
is unable to stop the illness on his/her own, and 
thus requires assistance to begin rehabilitation 
(e.g., Leshner, 2003; Cohen, 2004; Arias et. al., 
2016). Third, as policy makers, communities, and 
families become aware of the increased seriousness 
and scope of drug addiction harms, it is essential 
for international organisations and governments 
to explore conscientiously other approaches. As 
stated by the UNODC,

Using narcotic drugs and psychoactive 
substances without medical supervision, 
is associated with significant health risks. 
For this reason, the production, sale, 
distribution and use of these substances 
have been regulated under the control of 
the international treaties … with the aim 
to avoid negative consequences that could 
significantly undermine health and security. 
(UNODC, 2017:2).

This position reflects the current inclination of most 
international agencies and governments   facing the 
drug problem (including the governments of the 11 
countries in the study) to follow scientific evidence 
on the serious harm brought about by psychoactive 
substance use disorder. Consequently, it is important 
to examine and compare the two approaches, harm 
reduction and harm prevention. 

Unintended Collateral Harm of Harm Reduction 
Services

Social science research findings show that 
Newton’s third law of motion, ‘for every action 
there is … a reaction’, applies in a general sense 
to social behaviour. More importantly, social 
actions typically have unintended consequences. 
The impact of unintended consequences is 
substantiated by a wealth of evidence-based 
social science research over the past century 
and it is most visible in the unintended adverse 
consequences or spillover effects of policies and 
programmes envisioned by their designers to assist 
individuals and communities. Three of the four 
main harm reduction services—NSP, SIFs and 
DCRs— provide PWID with both clean injecting 
paraphernalia and a supportive and private setting 
for drug injecting. That is, these services support 
injecting as a mode of drug use. Herein lies the most 
vivid illustration of unintended collateral harm of 
the NSP, SIFs, DCRs and AIKDs. Harm Reduction 
literature assert that the NSP and DCRs/SIFs teach 
and facilitate “safer drug use” including provision 
of clean injecting and counselling on the risks of 
shared used of injecting equipment, in order to 
prevent infection transmission. HRI recommends 
that the NSP should aim for ‘high coverage’ stating 
that less than 100 needles per injector is ‘low 
coverage’; 100-199 needles per injector is ‘average 
coverage’; and 200 or more needles per injector is 
‘high coverage’ (HRI, 2012:28).

Unfortunately, the good intentions of harm 
reduction advocates do not lead to the expected goal 
of ‘safe injecting’. Harm reduction services that 
support drug injecting have negative unintended 
consequences. These are the most elementary 
reasons for the unintended consequences: (1) ‘Safe 

8
Home Team Journal

injecting rooms’ and ‘safe injecting facilities’ are 
not the only locations where PWID go for drug 
injecting. (2) Providing clean injecting kits through 
NSP and aiming for 200 or more needles per 
injector simply increases the number of needles and 
syringes each injector has, but does not guarantee 
that the injectors would stop sharing them. And 
(3), teaching PWID how to take the necessary 
precautions to avoid infections, does not assure 
they would take those precautions every time 
they inject drugs. On the contrary, research show 
that the provision of information and free sterile 
injecting kits to PWID does not preclude them 
from sharing of needles and injecting equipment or 
their circumventing pre-injection skin cleaning and 
other infection-preventing practices (e.g, Bonar & 
Rosenberg, 2014).

Injecting increases the probability of transmission 
of blood-borne infections - mainly HIV and 
Hepatitis C and B. The prevalence of HIV infection 
shows signs of decreasing around the world, as 
well as among PWID, but Hepatitis C (HCV) is 
rising, as shown in Table 1. In 2018, the prevalence 
of HIV among PWID ranged from 0.2% (New 
Zealand) to 28.8% (Indonesia). In contrast, HCV 
prevalence per 1,000 PWID in 2017-2018 ranged 
from 51.0% (Australia) to 88.3% (Portugal). Drug 
injecting inflicts many other serious harms to 
PWID in addition to these blood-borne infections.  
The promotion of injecting equipment and quiet 
locations to inject appear to foster these and other 
serious unintended collateral harms including 
overdose, infective endocarditis and groin injecting. 

Overdose

Current scientific evidence demonstrate that 
injecting opioid users “are at an elevated risk 
of death” (Jekeran et. al., 2017:424), and that 
injecting is strongly associated with disease burden 
and opioid overdose deaths (e.g, Degenhardt et. 
al., 2017; Roxburgh et. al., 2017; UNODC, 2017, 
2018; WHO, 2019a). To illustrate, eight of the 11 
countries in the study have records on drug-related 
deaths. Their reported figures show an increase in 
deaths - most of them caused by opioid overdose 
- from the period 2010-2014 to 2017-2018 (see 

Table 1). Canada reported the highest number: 
11,500 deaths in 2017-2018, followed by the 
United Kingdom with 3,256; Australia 1,795; and 
Germany 1,272. 

As mentioned earlier, one of the services promoted 
by the harm reduction approach is naloxone, a 
drug to counter opioid overdose. Harm reduction 
advocates advise PWID to keep naloxone at home 
to use in an emergency, to be administered by 
family members or friends of the drug injector in 
the event of an overdose (EMCDDA, 2015:71). 
Naloxone was classified as dangerous in the hands 
of non-medical persons (UNODC/WHO, 2013). 
In most Asian countries, naloxone is “a scheduled 
drug” that “cannot be sold over the counter” 
(HRI, 2012:33). However, WHO now advises “to 
make naloxone available in communities without 
prescription” (WHO, 2019a:6).

Infective Endocarditis

Infective 
endocarditis 
(IE) 
refers 
to 
the 
inflammation of the endocardium - the lining 
membrane of the heart cavities and connective 
tissue - due to infection with bacteria, fungi and 
other microorganisms. Infective endocarditis is 
becoming “increasingly common among people 
who inject drugs” (Weir et. al., 2019:93; Wurcel et. 
al., 2016). More specifically, 

Injection drug use … can lead to IE through 
direct injection of bacteria or through 
spread from skin and soft tissue abscesses 
into the bloodstream. … it is estimated that 
anywhere between 5% and 20% of people 
who inject drugs have had IE. ... [Compared 
to IE patients with non-drug use] people 
with [injection drug use-related] IE have 
… higher mortality after valve replacement 
and increased frequency of repeated 
endocarditis. (Wurcel et. al., 2016:1)

Medical researchers explain that bacteria on the 
skin is common among PWID because intravenous 

9
Special Issue •  January 2020

drug injectors tend to have “high nasal and 
cutaneous colonization rates with staphylococcus 
aureus”; and that “repetitive cocaine injection leads 
to vasospam and distant thrombosis” (Starakis, 
Panos & Mazokopakis, 2012:249). 

There is no sufficient published information 
on the impact of IE in all the 11 countries in the 
study. Table 1 illustrates two other serious harms 
experienced by PWID namely, drug-related deaths 
and Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. However, 
we may reasonably assume IE is common among 
PWID in the 11 countries as IE is associated with 
repetitive drug injecting. Some studies define 
frequent injecting as exceeding 120 times per 
month and involving a combination of substances 
including heroin, prescription and non-prescription 
opioids, crack cocaine and other drugs (Roy et. al., 
2017:18). In fact, consumption of psychoactive 
substances via injection tend to be repetitive 
because “opioids cause physical dependence that 
compels PWID to inject daily” (Roy et. al., 2017: 
22). According to the UNODC, “Due to the short 
duration of their effects, injection of stimulant 
drugs is frequently associated with rapidly repeated 
injecting, with some individuals reporting more 
than 20 injections a day” (UNODC, 2019b:23).  

Groin Injecting

Some PWID practise groin injecting, which 
is particularly dangerous. In 2013, 38% of 
British PWID surveyed reported groin injecting 
(EMCDDA, 2014a:65). The trends of groin 
injecting and of injecting a mix of crack and 
heroin called ‘speedball’, highlight the expanding 
danger and controversy over the needle exchange 
programme (Palmateer et. al., 2010). According to 
D. A. Zador from the National Addiction Centre in 
London,

… groin injectors are currently managed 
largely with advice from harm reduction 
agencies on sterile injection practice, 
guidance on the ‘safe’ distinction of the 
femoral vein from the artery prior to 
injection and other information. These 

practices deserve serious questioning. Can 
groin injecting behavior be made safer 
with a shelf-full of ‘safe’ groin injecting 
pamphlets? Possibly not. … Recent work 
using 
ultrasonography 
demonstrates 
that chronic deep vein injecting can alter 
the usual neurovascular anatomy of the 
femoral region, hence it is unlikely that 
groin injecting can ever be taught as a 
safe procedure. … How far should we 
protect user freedom to engage in high-risk 
behaviours and when should prevention 
and/or discouragement of these behaviours 
take priority? In other words, in terms of 
harm reduction, where should one ‘draw 
the line? (Zador, 2007: 1791).

The Harm Prevention Approach

In contrast to harm reduction, harm prevention 
is an evidence-based, multipronged approach 
comprising all concerted efforts by civil society, 
the private sector, and the government, to avert 
the harm that drug addiction exacts upon both 
the individual and the collective (family, school, 
workplace, 
recreation 
networks, 
community 
and nation), through prevention, treatment and 
rehabilitation. At the individual level, the harm 
prevention approach comprises various modalities 
of psychosocial therapy including “strengths-based”  
and other personalised therapeutic counselling 
such as the Twelve-Step Approach, Motivational 
Enhancement Therapy (MET), and other cognitive 
behavioural strategies; and abstinence-oriented 
treatment that may be residential and may include 
a combination of detoxification, rehabilitation, 
counselling, 
vocational/occupational 
training 
and aftercare. In contrast to the harm reduction 
approach, counselling, therapy and rehabilitation 
in the harm prevention approach are abstinence-
oriented and medically supervised. The harm 
prevention approach applies current medical and 
psychosocial research evidence on psychoactive 
substance dependence and its predictors and, 

10
Home Team Journal

consequently, it is fundamentally different from the 
harm reduction approach (Quah, 2017). 

The harm prevention approach applies the 
biomedical terms ‘dependence syndrome’ and 
‘substance use disorder’ as interchangeable 
labels for the illness of drug addiction. WHO’s 
definition of ‘dependence syndrome’ follows 
the APA’s Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of 
Mental Disorders’ latest edition DSM-5 (APA 
2013). The only difference is that APA removed its 
earlier distinction between drug dependence and 
drug abuse and now uses the term “substance use 
disorder” to diagnose a person who meets two or 
more of these 11 characteristics: “(1) used larger 
amounts of substance/longer; (2) repeated attempts 
to quit/control use; (3) much time spent using; 
(4) craving; (5) neglected major roles to use; (6) 
social/interpersonal problems related to use; (7) 
activities given up to use; (8) hazardous use; (9) 
physical/psychological problems related to use; 
(10) tolerance; (11) withdrawal” (Norko and Fitch, 
2014: 443-44).

Four principles - three of them evidence-based and 
one ethics-based - support the harm prevention 
approach. Those principles are: (1) substance use 
disorder or dependence syndrome is the final of 
three stages along a trajectory that begins with trying 
psychoactive drugs as recreation; (2) a combination 
of social and psychological factors nudge the person 
along that trajectory from recreation to regular use 
and then on to dependence; (3) the final stage is an 
incapacitating illness - substance use disorder or 
dependence syndrome - that renders  the drug user 
powerless to stop drug consumption independently, 
thus requiring external help to recover. Principle (4) 
is ethics-based: given the universal ethical norm 
that health is a basic human right (e.g., WHO, 
2019a:9), the harm prevention approach deems 
rehabilitation as a fundamental right of people who 
are affected by substance use disorder. Accordingly, 
from the perspective of the harm prevention 
approach, denying rehabilitation to persons affected 
by an illness - such as substance use disorder or 
dependence syndrome - that impairs his/her ability 
to make decisions on his/her own welfare, is a 
violation of that person’s right to health. 

How the Harm Prevention Approach Averts 
Collateral Harm

The above four principles illustrate how the harm 
prevention approach averts collateral harm. Let us 
examine each in turn. 

(1) Substance use disorder is not an event but the 
outcome of a process. Thus, in order to preclude 
the problem as early as possible, it is important 
to understand why a person begins taking drugs. 
Studies show that behaviour can be learned 
and can be modified and changed. That is, for a 
regular individual, “the path towards substance 
addiction comprises biological, psychological 
and sociocultural processes” (Rotgers, 2003:167). 
Besides genetic predisposition, a person’s path 
to the illness is also influenced by many factors 
including his/her social and cultural environment 
shaping “the easiness and frequency of drug 
availability”; “drug-related cues as reminders of 
drug use (for example, relationships, situations, 
‘sights, smells, sounds’, music)”; and “the presence 
of a ‘drug-free alternative’ activities” (Doweiko, 
2009:33-35). Consequently, providing a drug-free 
environment at home, in schools, the workplace, 
recreational locations and services, and in the 
community at large, is the first basic step towards 
preventing substance use disorder. The harm 
prevention approach seeks to mobilise the entire 
community in this effort and to promote a drug-free 
culture.

(2) Biomedical and social science experts 
acknowledge 
the 
close 
link 
between 
the 
molecular and social dimensions of the drug 
problem: “Among the things that we know about 
addictions with reasonable scientific certainty is 
that they come intertwined with a host of other 
health, social, economic, family and mental 
health problems” (Miller and Miller, 2009:685; 
Fulton, 2014; CCSA, 2014:29;). International 
policy agencies acknowledge this combination of 
predictors of substance use disorder identified by 
scientific research (UNODC, 2015a:33; 2015c; 
2019a; 2019a).  Accordingly, the harm prevention 
approach activates the collaboration of mental 
health experts, social workers, welfare agencies, 

11
Special Issue •  January 2020

educators and primary care physicians, to identify 
early signs of distress - physical, emotional, social, 
or economic - in adolescents and adults trying 
drugs recreationally, and offer them and their loved 
ones counselling, therapy and other assistance to 
prevent the onset of substance use disorder. 

(3) Psychoactive substance use has negative 
physical impact on the user. Summarising “almost 
three decades of research” on the biological damage 
caused by drug addiction (substance use disorder 
or dependence syndrome), A.I. Leshner reported: 
“scientists have concluded that drug addiction 
is without doubt a brain disease—a disease 
that disrupts the mechanisms responsible for 
generating, modulating, and controlling cognitive, 
emotional, and social behaviour” (Leshner, 2003; 
Cohen, 2004:58). 

(4)  As psychoactive substance disorder is an 
illness that impacts the brain’s reward system and 
other functions, the harm prevention approach 
asserts that rehabilitation is a fundamental right 
of people affected by substance use disorder. 
Let us examine this point in more detail: the key 
difference between the harm reduction approach 
and the harm prevention approach rests on their 
opposite positions regarding the drug user’s 
autonomy or self-determination. Harm reduction 
advocates assert that a person has the right to 
choose to take drugs and that continuing drug 
consumption, regardless of the consequences, is 
a personal choice. The harm prevention approach 
considers the autonomy argument incorrect for two 
main reasons. 

First, substance use is a self-inflicted harm that 
affects not only the drug user, but also his/her  
loved ones, immediate family, social network and 
the larger community (Government of Canada, 
2019a; 2019b; Quah, 2017:159). Writing on 
liberty, J.S. Mill explained that a person’s self-
inflicted “mischief” that “seriously affect …those 
nearly connected to him … and in a minor degree 
society at large” … becomes amenable to moral 
disapprobation” (Mill, 1991:96). Mill’s norm 

applies to substance use disorder and to the need 
for significant others, family and community to 
assist the person affected to avert drug use, or to 
recover if the illness has advanced. 

Second, the harm reduction approach presumes 
that when consuming drugs, PWID are exercising 
their freedom of choice. In fact, this presumption 
that people affected by substance use syndrome are 
able to exercise authentic autonomy is at the core 
of the recommendations made by the Reference 
Group to the United Nations on voluntary 
treatments for drug dependence (UN, 2010b: 22-
25). This presumption is flawed. The individual 
is able to exercise authentic autonomy only when 
he/she can make rational choices, for example, to 
choose the most beneficial course of action out 
of a range of alternatives. Research indicates that 
making treatment services accessible to PWUD 
and PWID is important but insufficient because it 
is highly likely that their ability to make rational 
choices to protect or enhance their well-being is 
absent or seriously impaired by their substance 
use disorder. The deterioration of brain functions 
caused by psychoactive substance use is well 
documented (e.g., Barbarin, 1979; Hammer et. 
al., 1997; Kreek, 2000; Van Wormer & Davis, 
2003:95-171; Nasrallah & Smeltzer, 2003:129; 
Carlezon & Konradi, 2004:48; Uhl, 2004; Caplan, 
2008; Verdejo-Garcia & Bechare, 2009; Doweiko, 
2009; De Leon, 2010; Meier et. al., 2012). Scientist 
Harold Doweiko summarises it thus: 

Repeated exposure to the drugs of abuse 
initiates a process of ‘restructuring’ in the 
brain’s reward system, memory centres, and 
the higher cortical functions that control 
reward-seeking behaviour. Strong drug-
centred memories are formed, helping to 
guide the individual to select behavioural 
choices that lead to further drug-induced 
rewards. … Essentially, a normal biological 
process that evolved to help early humans 
survived in the wild has been subverted by 

12
Home Team Journal

the reward potential of the compounds that 
they have invented (Doweiko, 2009: 34).

Summarising medical research findings on the 
biological damage caused by drug addiction, 
Alan Leshner explained: “Based on almost three 
decades of research, scientists have concluded that 
drug addiction is without doubt a brain disease—a 
disease that disrupts the mechanisms responsible for 
generating, modulating, and controlling cognitive, 
emotional, and social behaviour” (Leshner, 2003; 
Cohen, 2004:58). 

In essence, a person afflicted by substance use 
disorder needs treatment but is unable to seek it or 
to stop drug consumption on his/her own, due to 
the impairing effect of the psychoactive substance. 
How does the harm prevention approach solves 
this dilemma? The harm prevention approach 
offers ethical intervention. Ethical intervention is 
an “organised effort” of the person’s “significant 
others” to help him/her “break through the wall of 
denial, rationalisation and projection” and it must to 
be conducted “under the supervision of a chemical 
dependency professional”, with the person’s 
welfare as the fundamental objective, “seeking to 
attain the addict’s agreement to immediately seek 
treatment.” (Doweiko, 2009: 324). The intervention 
process is ‘the restauration of autonomy’ as medical 
ethicist Arthur Caplan explains: “Once competency 
and coercion are distinguished, it is clear that both 
are requisite for autonomy. Mandatory treatment 
which relieves the coercive effects of addiction 
and permits the recreation or re-emergence of true 
autonomy in the patient can be the right thing to 
do” (Caplan, 2008:1920). 

In addition to the ethical intervention of loved ones 
to help the addict with treatment and rehabilitation, 
the harm prevention approach involves families, 
community and nation as a whole in the endeavour 
of preventing the young from entering the path of 
substance use. Worldwide evidence of psychoactive 
substance use over the past two decades show that 
dependence is affecting younger populations. The 
UNODC’s call to governments two decades ago is 

even more relevant today: “As a majority of people 
first use drugs during school age, prevention work 
has to set in earlier” (UNODC, 2000: 104).  

Conclusion

To recap, the solutions to the increasing problem 
of substance use disorder offered by the harm 
reduction approach are NSP and SIFs for injecting 
drug users; and OST comprising methadone, 
codeine, buprenorphine and other substances. 
The harm reduction approach promotes these 
services as ‘safe’ modes of injecting and managing 
psychoactive substances use and may include some 
counselling and information on ‘safe’ injecting. In 
contrast, the harm prevention approach comprises 
different modalities of psychosocial therapy, 
counselling, and rehabilitation, including sustained 
abstinence from drugs as the one of its key 
objectives. 

Three significant worldwide developments have 
unsettled the harm reduction approach since 2010. 
First, the harm prevention approach highlights 
evidence that substance use disorder - dependence 
syndrome - is an illness and that it must be treated 
as a chronic rather than acute illness (UNODC, 
2015a:34). The scientific evidence refutes the 
position of the harm reduction approach that 
psychoactive drug use is the drug user’s lifestyle 
choice.

Second, evidence-based scrutiny of the harm 
reduction approach shows that, given the known 
high risk behaviours of PWID, the NSP’s 
effectiveness in preventing the transmission of 
infectious diseases (HIV, HCV, and HBV) is lower 
than expected as PWID routinely share needles and 
injecting equipment, and bypass pre-injecting skin 
cleaning and other infection-preventing practices. 
Even supporters of harm reduction acknowledged 
that in “the community of injecting drug users … 
commitment to safe-injection practices may wane 
as the physiological and psychological desperation 
associated with addiction takes precedent over all 
else” (Dechman, 2015:496). 

13
Special Issue •  January 2020

Third, all the 11 countries in the study allow the 
co-existence of both approaches although this 
does not necessarily translate into allocation of 
public funding despite harm reduction advocacy 
groups’ strong lobbying to seek financial support 
from the government. They also seek and receive 
support from non-governmental organisations, 
private individuals, foundations and civil society to 
support their activities and services. HRI has noted 
that governments’ support for the harm reduction 
approach worldwide is lower than expected (HRI, 
2019a: 2019b). The early support international 

agencies gave to the harm reduction approach has 
declined due to the lack of systematic evidence-
based scrutiny of harm reduction outcomes, 
the growing scientific evidence of the physical, 
psychological and social harm inflicted on the 
person by psychoactive substance use, and the 
recognition of substance use disorder as a chronic 
illness. It is hoped that this discussion of the 
unintended collateral harms of the harm reduction 
approach and of the contributions of the harm 
prevention approach add to the search for effective 
evidence-based solutions to the drug problem.

References

AIHW [Australian Institute of Health and Welfare]. (2014). Drug 
treatment for opioid dependence. Retrieved from http://www.aihw.
gov.au/ 

AIHW. (2015a). National opioid pharmacotherapy statistics 2014. 
Retrieved from http://www.aihw.gov.au/

AIHW. (2019a). Alcohol, tobacco & other drugs in Australia. 
Canberra: AIHW. Cat. no. PHE 221.  Retrieved from https://www.
aihw.gov.au/reports/alcohol/alcohol-tobacco-other-drugs-australia

Arias F., Arnsten J.H., Cunningham C.O., Coulehan K., 
Batchelder A., Brisbane M., Segal K., & Rivera-Mindt M. (2016). 
“Neurocognitive, psychiatric, and substance use characteristics on 
opioid dependent adults,” Addictive Behaviors, 60: 137-143.

Barbarin, O.A. (1979). “Recidivism in drug addiction: A 
behavioural analysis,” Addictive Behaviors, 4, 121-132.

Bonar, E.E., & Rosenberg, H. (2014). “Injection drug users’ 
perceived barriers to using self-initiated harm reduction strategies”, 
Addiction Research and Theory, 22, 4:271-278.

Caplan, A. (2008). “Denying autonomy in order to create it: The 
paradox of forcing treatment upon addicts,” Addiction, 103, 1919-
1921.

Carlezon, W.A., & Konradi, C. (2004). “Understanding the 
neurobiological consequences of early exposure to psychotropic 
drugs: linking behavior with molecules”, Neuropharmacology, 47, 
Supplement 1, 47-60.	

CCSA [Canadian Centre on Substance Abuse]. (2014). 
Collaboration for Addiction and Mental Health Care: Best Advice. 
Ottawa: CCSA. Retrieved from http://www.ccsa.ca/Eng/topics/
Mental-Health-and-Substance-Abuse/Pages/default.aspx   

Cohen, P.J. (2004). Drug Addiction and the Law: Policy, Politics 
and Public Health. Durham, NC: Carolina Academic Press.

De Leon, G. (2010). “The therapeutic community: A recovery-
oriented treatment pathway and the emergence of a recovery-
oriented integrated system.” In R. Yates and M.S. Malloch (eds.), 
Tackling Addiction. Pathways to Recovery. London: Jessica 
Kingsley Publishers, pp. 70-83.
 
Degenhardt, L., Peacock A., Colledge S., et.al. (2017). “Global 
prevalence of injecting drug use and sociodemographic 
characteristics and prevalence of HIV, HBV, and HCV in people 
who inject drugs: a multistage systematic review,” Lancet Global 
Health, 2017, 5:e1192-1207.

Dechman, M.K. (2015). “Peer helpers’ struggles to care for ‘others’ 
who inject drugs”, International Journal of Drug Policy, 26, 
5:492-500.

Doweiko, H.E. (2009). Concepts of Chemical Dependency. 7th 
Edition. Belmont, CA: Brooks/Cole.

EMCDDA [European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug 
Addiction]. (2015). European Drug Report 2015.  Lisbon: 
EMCDDA.

EMCDDA. (2018). Perspectives on Drugs – Drug consumption 
rooms: an overview of provision and evidence. Lisbon: EMCDDA.  

EMCDDA. (2019a). European Drug Report 2019. Luxembourg: 
EMCDDA.

EMCDDA. (2019b). Country Drug Reports 2019. Retrieved from 
http://www.emcdda.europa.eu/countries/drug-reports/2019/

EMCDDA. (2019c). “Problem drug use”. Retrieved from
http://www.emcdda.europa.eu/topics/problem-drug-use

14
Home Team Journal

EMCDDA. (2019d). Drugs in syringes from six European cities. 
Results from the ESCAPE project 2017. Luxembourg: EMCDDA. 

Fulton, B.S. (2014). Drug Discovery for the Treatment of 
Addiction. Medicinal Chemistry Strategies. Hoboken, N.J.: John 
Wiley & Sons.

Greer, A., & Ritter, A. (2019). “Editorial: Harm reduction and the 
opioid crisis: Emergency policy challenges”, International Journal 
of Drug Policy, in press. Retrieved from
https://doi.org/101016/j.drugpo.2019.05.015       

Government of Canada. (2019a). Federal Actions on Opioids as of 
April 2019. Retrieved from
 https://www.canada.ca/en/health-canada/services/substance-use/ 

Government of Canada. (2019b). National Report: Apparent 
Opioid-related deaths in Canada (June 2019). Retrieved from 
https://health-infobase.canada.ca/database/national-surveillance-
opioid-mortality.html

Hammer, R.P., Egilmez, Y., & Emmett-Oglesby, M.W. (1997). 
“Neural mechanisms of tolerance to the effects of cocaine,” 
Behavioral Brain Research, 84: 225-239.

HRI [Harm Reduction International]. (2012). The Global State of 
Harm Reduction 2012. Towards and Integrated Response. London: 
HRI, K. Stone & S. Shirley-Beavan. Retrieved from https://www.
hri.global/

HRI. (2019a). “What is harm reduction?” Retrieved from https://
www.hri.global/

HRI. (2019b). Harm Reduction Group Response to the Health and 
Social Care Committee Inquiry on Drugs Policy. London: HRI. 
Retrieved from https://www.hri.global/contents/1908 

IDT [Instituto da Droga e da Toxicodependencia]. (2010). 
National Report (2009 Data) to the EMCDDA – Portugal: New 
Developments, Trends and in-depth information on selected issues. 
Lisbon: IDT and EMCDDA.

INCB [International Narcotics Control Board]. Report of the 
International Narcotics Control Board for 2014. New York: UN. 

Jekeran, A., Håkansson A., Rylance R., Wagner P., Alanko Blomé 
M., & Björkman P. (2017). “Death from liver disease in a cohort 
of injecting opioid users in a Swedish city in relation to registration 
for opioid substitution therapy,” Drug and Alcohol Review, 36, 
5:424-431.

Kreek, M.J. (2000). “Methadone-related opiod agonist 
pharmacotherapy for heroin addiction. History, recent molecular 
and neurochemical research and the future in mainstream 
medicine,” Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, 909: 
186-216. 

Leshner, A.I. (2003). “Understanding drug addiction: Insights from 
research.” In A.W. Graham, T.K. Schultz, M. Mayo-Smith, R.K. 
Ries, and B.B. Wilford (eds), Principles of Addiction Medicine. 
Chevy Chase, MD: American Society of Addiction Medicine, pp. 
47-56.

Malaysian National Anti-Drug Agency. (2019). Drugs Statistics-
Laman Web Rasmi Agensi Anti Dadah Kebangsaan. 

Mathers, B.M., Degenhardt, L., Ali, H., Wiessing, L., Hickman, 
M., Mattick, R.P., Myers, B., Ambekar, A., & Strathdee, S.A. 
(2010). “HIV prevention, treatment, and care services for people 
who inject drugs: a systematic review of global, regional and 
national coverage,” The Lancet, 375 (1 March), 1014-1028.

Meier, M.H., Caspi, A., Ambler, A., Hartington, H., Houts, R., 
Keefe, R.S.E., McDonald, K., Ward, A., Poukton, R., & Moffitt, 
T. (2012). “Persistent cannabis users show neuropsychological 
decline from childhood to midlife,” Proceedings of the National 
Academy of Sciences, 109, 40: E2657-E2664.

Miller, P.G., & Miller, W.R. (2009). “What should we be aiming for 
in the treatment of addiction?” Addiction, 104, 685-686.

Morrow P.L. (2018). “The American opioid death epidemic—
Lessons for New Zealand?” New Zealand Medical Journal, 131, 
1469: 59-63.

NAP [National Academy of Sciences]. (2017). The Health Effects 
of Cannabis and Cannabinoids: The current state of evidence and 
recommendations for Research. Washington DC: NAP.

Nasrallah, H.A., & Smeltzer, D.J. (2003). Contemporary Diagnosis 
and Management of the Patient with Schizophrenia. Pennsylvania: 
Handbooks In Health Care.

Norko, M.A., & Fitch, W.L. (2014). “DSM-5 and Substance Use 
Disorders: Clinicolegal Implications”, Journal of the American 
Academy of Psychiatry and the Law, 42: 443-452.

Palmateer, N., Kimber, J., Hickman, M., Hutchinson, S., Rhodes, 
T. & Goldberg, D. (2010). “Evidence for the effectiveness of sterile 
injecting equipment provision in preventing hepatitis C and human 
immunodeficiency virus transmission among injecting drug users: 
a review of reviews,” Addiction, 105, 844-859.

Quah, S.R. (2017). “Illicit psychoactive substance use and harm 
prevention.” In S.R. Quah and W.C. Cockerham, (eds), The 
International Encyclopedia of Public Health. 2nd Ed., vol 4: 151-
181; and Elsevier Reference Module in Biomedical Sciences, http://
dx.doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-803678-5.00521-X 

Rotgers, F. (2003). “Cognitive-behavioral theories of substance 
abuse.” In F. Rotgers, J. Morgenstern and S.T. Walters (eds). 
Treating Substance Abuse: Theory and Technique. 2nd Edition. 
New York: The Guildford Press, pp. 166-189.

Romelsjo, A., Engdahl, B., Stenbacka, M., Fugelstad, A., Davstad, 
I., Leifman, A., & Thiblin, I. (2010). “Were the changes to 
Sweden’s maintenance treatment policy 2000-06 related to changes 
in opiate-related mortality and morbidity?” Addiction, 105, 1625-
1632. 

Roy, E., Arruda, N., Leclerc, P., Morissette, C., Blanchette, C., 
Blouin, K., & Alary, M. (2017). “Drug use practices among people 
who inject drugs in a context of drug market changes: Challenges 
for optimal coverage of harm reduction programs”, International 
Journal of Drug Policy, 45, 18-24.

15
Special Issue •  January 2020

Roxburgh, A., Hall, W.D., Dobbins, T., Gisev, N., Burns, L., 
Pearson, S., & Degenhardt, L. (2017). “Trends in heroin and 
pharmaceutical opioid overdose deaths in Australia,” Drug and 
Alcohol Dependence, 179: 291-298.

Starakis, I., Panos, G., & Mazokopakis, E. (2012). “Dealing 
with the substance abuse epidemic and infective endocarditis: 
Clinical, immunologic and pathogenic aspects”, Current Vascular 
Pharmacology, 10: 247-256.

Uhl, G.R. (2004). “Molecular genetic underpinnings of human 
substance abuse vulnerability: likely contributions to understanding 
addiction as a mnemonic process,” Neuropharmacology, 47,  
140-147.

UN [United Nations]. (2019). World Population Prospects. 
Retrieved from http://population.un.org/wpp/DataQuery 

UNAIDS [The Joint United Nations Programme on HIV and 
AIDS]. (2015a). Progress Reports Submitted by Countries – New 
Zealand. Retrieved from http://www.unaids.org/en/dataanalysis/
knowyourresponse/countryprogressreports/2014countries 

UNAIDS. (2019b). Country Factsheets. Retrieved from 
https://www.unaids.org/en/regioncountries/country 

UNAIDS. (2019c). Data UNODC. Retrieved from https://
dataunodc.org/

UNODC [United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime]. (2000). 
World Drug Report 2000. New York: UNDC and Oxford 
University Press.

UNODC. (2015a). World Drug Report 2015.  Vienna: UNODC. 
Retrieved from http://www.unodc.org/documents/wdr2015/World_
Drug_Report_2015.pdf

UNODC. (2017). International Standards for the Treatment of 
drug Use Disorders. – Draft for Field Testing. Retrieved from 
https://www.unodc.org/   

UNODC. (2019a). World Drug Report 2019 Booklet 2 Global 
Overview of Drug Demand and Supply. Vienna: UNODC. 

UNODC. (2019b). HIV Prevention, Treatment, Care and Support 
for People Who Use Stimulant Drugs.-Technical Guide. Vienna: 
UNODC.

Van Wormer, K. & Davis, D.R. (2003). Addiction Treatment. A 
Strengths Perspective. Toronto: Thomson.

Verdejo-Garcia, A. & Bechara, A. (2009). “A somatic theory of 
addiction,” Neuropharmacology, 56, 48-62.

Weir, M.A., Slater J., Jandoc R., Koivy S., Gard A.X., & Silverman 
M. (2019). “The risk of infective endocarditis among people who 
inject drugs: a retrospective, population-based time series analysis,” 
Canadian Medical Association Journal, 191, 4:e93-e99. 

WHO [World Health Organization]. (2012). “WHO/UNODC/
UNAIDS Technical guide for countries to set targets for universal 
access to HIV prevention, treatment and care for injecting drug 
users – 2012 revision. Geneva: WHO.  Retrieved from 
https://www.who.int/hiv/pub/idu/targets_universal_access/en/ 

WHO. (2015a). “Substance abuse”. Retrieved from
http://www.who.int/topics/substance_abuse/en/ 

WHO. (2019a). The public health dimension of the world drug 
problem - How WHO works to prevent drug misuse, reduce harm 
and improve access to medicine. Geneva: WHO. Retrieved from 
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/igo 

Wurcel, A.G., Anderson, J.E., Chui, K.K.H., Skinner, S., Knox, 
T.A., Snydman, D.R., & Stopka, T.J. (2016). “Increasing infectious 
endocarditis admissions among young people who inject drugs”, 
Open Forum Infectious Diseases [OFID], 1-5.

Zador, D.A. (2007). “Facilitating groin injecting behaviour: harm 
reduction or harm production?” Addiction, 102, 1791-1792.

About the Author:

Professor Stella Quah (Ph.D) is Adjunct Professor, Health Services and Systems Research, Duke-NUS 
Medical School, Singapore. Prior to joining Duke-NUS in July 2009, she was faculty member of the 
Department of Sociology, University of Singapore - later the National University of Singapore (NUS) - from 
1977 to 2009; and Research Sociologist at the Department of Social Medicine and Public Health (SMPH), 
University of Singapore, from 1973-1975. Professor Quah is a current member of several Institutional 
Review Boards. Among her most recent publications on sociology of health and social epidemiology are 
the Blackwell Encyclopedia of Health, Illness, Behaviour and Society, Co-Editor and contributor (Wiley-Blackwell, 2014); 
International Encyclopedia of Public Health, 2nd Ed., Editor-in-Chief (Elsevier, 2017); and Section Editor of Epidemiology 
and Public Health, Elsevier Reference Module in Biomedical Sciences (2014-2019). Her published research on family sociology 
includes the Routledge Handbook of Families in Asia (Routledge, 2015); and Families in Asia – Home and Kin (Routledge, 
2009) among others. Her complete and current list of publications by theme is found at https://www.stellarquah.website/ 

16
Home Team Journal

Review of Empirical 
Evidence on the Link 
between Drugs and Crime 

Abstract

Abuse of illicit drugs inflicts substantial costs on abusers, their families, as well as the society 
at large. One of the channels through which drug abuse can exert a toll on society is through its 
impact on crime. This paper seeks to assess the literature to better understand the relationship 
between drug abuse and crime. Overall, there is substantial evidence to suggest that drug abusers 
have a higher tendency to engage in criminal behaviour and crime, and that drug consumption and 
trafficking fuel other crimes.

Gursharon Kaur Sidhu

Research & Statistics Division, Ministry of Home Affairs, Singapore

Background

Abuse of illicit drugs inflicts substantial costs on 
abusers, their families, as well as the society at 
large. One of the channels through which drug 
abuse can exert a toll on society is through its 
impact on crime. 

While illicit drugs have traditionally been 
perceived to be a driver of crime, in recent years, 
some proponents of harm reduction approaches to 
illicit drugs have suggested that the liberalisation of 
drug policies could, in fact, lead to improvements 
in the crime situation.

Against this backdrop, this paper seeks to assess 
the literature to better understand the relationship 
between drug abuse and crime, with a focus on 
violent and property crimes. In particular, the paper 
seeks to understand whether there is likely a causal 
link between drug abuse and crime; that is, whether 
abuse of illicit drugs leads to criminal acts.

Overview on the Nexus between Illicit 
Drugs and Crime

Goldstein (1985) provided a framework that 
conceptualised three triggers through which drugs 
could cause persons to commit crime; namely the 
psychopharmacological, 
economic-compulsive, 
and systemic triggers. Subsequent research has 
found specific evidence for each of these three 
triggers.

Psychopharmacological Trigger

In the Goldstein (1985) conceptual framework, the 
psychopharmacological trigger covers situations 
where drug users become excitable, irrational, or 
exhibit violent behaviour as a result of the ingestion 
of specific substances. An example of a study 
that has found evidence for this trigger is Boles 
and Miotto (2003), which described how chronic 
amphetamine intoxication produces a psychotic, 
paranoid state that may result in aggressive acts. 

17
Special Issue •  January 2020

This study found that smoking methamphetamine 
produced a “high” that lasts up to 24 hours compared 
to 20-30 minutes for smoking cocaine. After large 
doses of amphetamines, certain individuals might 
experience violent outbursts.

Economic-compulsive Trigger

The 
economic-compulsive 
trigger 
refers 
to 
situations where drug users engage in economically 
motivated crime in order to support an expensive 
drug habit (Goldstein, 1985). An example of a 
study that has found evidence for this trigger is 
Hutchinson, Gore, Taylor, Goldberg and Frisher 
(2000), which found that 954 injecting drug users 
(IDUs) in Glasgow interviewed in 1993 and 1994 
reported a mean expenditure of £324 on drugs per 
week, 71% of which was financed illegally. 750 
respondents reported having an illegal source of 
income, out of which 69% reported acquisitive 
crime, 14% reported drug dealing and 8% reported 
prostitution as their main source in the previous six 
months.

Systemic Trigger

In the Goldstein (1985) conceptual framework, the 
systemic trigger refers to crimes that occur as part of 
the illegal drug market and the enforcement of drug 
laws. Such crimes occur mainly between dealers 
and users, but extends into other areas such as police 
corruption. Examples include murders over drug 
turf and violence by drug distributors in the course 
of territorial disputes, retribution for selling “bad” 
drugs, the use of threat and violence to enforce 
rules within a drug-dealing organisation, fighting 
among users over drugs or drug paraphernalia, 
battles with police, and elimination of informers. 
Examples of studies for the systemic trigger include 
Goldstein, Brownstein, Ryan & Bellucci (1989), 

which examined 414 murders in New York City 
and found that almost 40% of the homicide events 
were related to the exigencies of the illicit market 
system. The two most common circumstances of 
systemic homicides were territorial fights between 
rival dealers and homicides occurring during 
robberies of drug dealers. Another example would 
be Dembo, Hughes, Jackson & Mieczkowski 
(1993), which found that in West Central Florida, 
the United States, two-thirds of youthful crack 
sellers admitted hurting or killing someone due to 
their involvement in the drug trade.

Meta-analysis of Studies on the Nexus 
between Drugs and Crime

More recently, Bennett, Holloway and Farrington 
(2008) conducted a meta-analysis of 30 studies 
looking at the connection between drugs and crime. 
The types of drugs covered in the studies examined 
include heroin, crack, cocaine, amphetamines, 
ecstasy and cannabis. The main finding from the 
meta-analysis was that the likelihood of offending 
was about three to four times greater for drug users 
compared to non-drug users. The meta-analysis 
also revealed that the relationship between illegal 
drug use and crime varied as a function of the 
type of drug used. For example, crack cocaine use 
displayed the strongest relationship with crime, 
followed by heroin and powder cocaine. The 
likelihood of offending was found to be about six 
times greater for crack users, three to three-and-a-
half times greater for heroin users and two-and-a-
half times greater for cocaine users as compared 
to non-crack, non-heroin and non-cocaine users 
respectively. Bennett, Holloway & Farrington 
(2008) also investigated selected recreational drugs 
and their connections with crime, and found that 
the likelihood of marijuana users offending were 
one-and-a-half times higher than the odds of non-
marijuana users offending.

18
Home Team Journal

Drug Abuse and Violent/Serious Crimes

Although there are slight variations in the 
categories of crime classified as violent under 
different jurisdictions, the types of violent 
crimes examined in these studies typically 
included murder, manslaughter, rape, robbery and 
aggravated assault.  

Evidence from the United States

Several studies have found evidence supporting a 
link between drug abuse and violent/serious crimes 
in the US context. Examples include:

a.	 Chaiken & Chaiken (1982) looked at the 
prevalence of illicit drug usage amongst male 
violent inmates. They found that 83% of over 
2,000 male violent inmates from the states of 
California, Michigan and Texas had used drugs 
during the same period as when they committed 
their crime. 

b.	 Ball, Rosen, Flueck & Nurco (1982) examined 
the criminality of male opiate addicts over 
an 11-year period. Using a random sample 
of 243 addicts in the city of Baltimore that 
had been selected from a population of 4,069 
male opiate addicts who had been arrested (or 
identified) by the Baltimore Police Department 
between 1952 and 1971, the authors tracked the 
criminal history of the sample over an 11-year 
period using interviews and data from official 
records. They found that criminal activity was 
higher during active drug use, and the number 
of crime days showed a six-fold increase per 
year during active drug use as contrasted with 
abstinent periods. Overall, 60% of the sample 
had been arrested one or more times for crimes 
of violence during the tracking period. 

c.	 Stretesky (2009) studied the relationship 
between methamphetamine use and homicide 
at the national level for the US. The study 
combined data from the National Household 
Survey on Drug Abuse and Survey of Inmates 
in State and Federal Correctional Facilities to 
create a case-control design that could be used to 
compare inmates who had been incarcerated for 

homicide (i.e., murder, voluntary/non-negligent 
manslaughter, and manslaughter) against a 
comparison group derived from the general 
population. The study found that in the United 
States, the likelihood of committing homicide 
was nearly 9 times greater for an individual 
who had used methamphetamine. Notably, the 
association between methamphetamine use and 
likelihood of committing homicide persisted 
even after accounting for alternative drug use 
(e.g., alcohol, heroin, cocaine etc.), sex, race, 
income, age, marital status, previous arrests, 
military experience, and education level, 
supporting the idea that there was a potential 
causal relationship between methamphetamine 
and violence.

Evidence from Portugal

In 2001, Portugal implemented a new law that 
decriminalised drug use for all categories of drugs. 
While the law maintained the status of illegality 
for using or possessing any drug for personal 
use without authorisation, the offence was now 
considered to be an administrative offence, rather 
than a criminal one (European Monitoring Centre 
for Drugs and Drug Addiction, 2011). Portugal’s 
decriminalisation has often been hailed as a 
“success story” (e.g., Greenwald, 2009) and there is 
some evidence to suggest that it might have helped 
to reduce “problematic drug use”, drug-related 
harm (Hughes & Stevens, 2010) and preventing 
overdose deaths within the country (Greenwald, 
2009). However, there is also evidence to suggest 
that decriminalisation was associated with increases 
in homicides in Portugal in the years following the 
change in the law:

a.	 Coelho (2015) noted that figures from the 
United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime’s 
World Drug Report 2009 indicated that the 
number of drug-related homicides in Portugal 
had increased by 40% since decriminalisation.

b.	 Yablon (2011) utilised a “difference-in-
differences” 
quasi-experimental 
modelling 
approach 
to 
examine 
the 
impact 
of 

19
Special Issue •  January 2020

decriminalisation on the homicide rate in 
Portugal between 2001 and 2008. To account 
for overarching time trends (e.g., changes in 
other factors) that could have also affected 
the homicide rates during the study period, 
the study compared changes in homicide rates 
in Portugal before and after decriminalisation 
relative to changes in homicide rates in other 
European countries during the same period. The 
study found decriminalisation to be associated 
with an approximately 25% increase in the 
homicide rate between 2001 and 2008. 

Drug Abuse and Property Crimes

There is a sizeable body of research that suggests 
that the abuse of illegal drugs is associated with 
property crime in multiple jurisdictions around the 
world, usually driven by economic-compulsive 
factors. Drug abuse in general, and more 
specifically the abuse of heroin and/or cocaine 
and/or crack, has been found to be associated with 
much higher levels of offending. The range of 
drug-related property crimes includes shoplifting, 
burglary, handling stolen goods, theft, the forging 
of medical prescriptions and street robbery 
committed to support the purchase of drugs. That 
being said, it is important to acknowledge that the 
link between drug abusers and property crimes may 
be also related to factors other than substance use. 
Some abusers may have long histories of crime 
involvement before becoming drug abusers, while 
others may come from economically disadvantaged 
backgrounds. Some studies have shown that drug 
abusers who are employed or better educated may 
be less likely to commit property crimes for the 
purposes of buying drugs as they are more likely 
to have a legitimate source of income [see Felson 
& Staff (2017); Stewart, Gossop, Marsden & Rolfe 
(2000); Nurco & Shaffer (1982)].

Studies that Looked at Illicit Drugs in General

a.	 Entorf & Winker (2008) examined the 
relationship between illicit drug use and 
property crimes in Germany between 1976 and 
1995 using panel data on 10 German states. 
The use of panel data allowed the researchers 

to construct panel data regression models 
that accounted for the effects of confounders 
such as state-specific characteristics and also 
institutional changes (e.g., changes of the 
federal law) that could have independently 
influenced the prevalence of property crimes. 
The study found that drug offences had a 
significant impact on property crimes with a 
parameter estimate of 0.06 to 0.10, i.e., a 1% 
increase in drug offences was associated with 
0.06% to 0.1% increase in theft. 

b.	 To study the relationship between illicit drug use 
and acquisitive crime in Australia, Goldsmid 
& Willis (2016) utilised data derived from the 
Drug Use Monitoring in Australia (DUMA) 
programme, which conducted interviews with 
detainees at selected police stations and watch 
houses across Australia about their drug use 
and criminal offending. The study compared 
police detainees who were found to be on 
certain drugs (e.g., methamphetamine/speed/
ice, cannabis, heroin or ecstasy) 30 days prior 
to being arrested to non-drug users. To quantify 
the association between illicit drug use and 
receipt of income from acquisitive crime, the 
authors ran a logistic regression. They found 
that the likelihood of methamphetamine users 
reporting income from an acquisitive crime was 
four-and-a-half times higher than that of a non-
drug user; likelihood of a heroin user reporting 
income from acquisitive crime was about four 
times higher than that of a non-user; and the 
likelihood of a cannabis user reporting income 
from acquisitive crime was about two times 
higher than that of a non-user. 

Studies that Focussed on Particular Types 
of Drugs

a.	 Bennet & Holloway (2004) examined the 
association between illicit drug use and 
acquisitive crime in the England and Wales 
using data derived from the New English 
and Welsh Arrestee Drug Abuse Monitoring 
(NEW-ADAM) programme. The NEW-ADAM 
programme was a national research study 
comprising interviews and voluntary urine tests 

20
Home Team Journal

designed to establish the prevalence of drug use 
among arrestees. The programme interviewed 
3,091 arrestees between 1999-2001. The authors 
found that among arrestees who said they had 
used heroin and/or cocaine and/or crack in the 
last year, 75% reported having committed one 
or more acquisitive crimes in the last 12 months 
compared to 17% of arrestees who had not used 
any drugs in the past 12 months. The authors 
also found that among arrestees who reported 
using one or more illegal drugs in the last 12 
months and committing one or more acquisitive 
crimes, 60% acknowledged a link between their 
drug use and offending behaviour. Among these 
arrestees, 83% reported they needed money to 
buy drugs and to support their addiction. 

b.	 Felson & Staff (2017) found evidence that 
suggested that both heavy and infrequent users 
of crack cocaine, heroin and powder cocaine 
commit theft to support their drug habits. The 
authors studied a nationally representative 
sample of prison inmates (5,371 property 
offenders and 4,588 drug offenders) in the United 
States and compared users of certain drugs to 
non-users. Using logistic regression models that 
accounted for the effects of possible confounders 
such as employment, education, prior record, 
drug prices, alcohol use, and demographic 
characteristics, the authors showed that:

i)	 The likelihood of an offender engaging in 
drug-motivated theft was almost nine times 
greater for a heavy user (almost daily or daily) 
of heroin compared to an offender who had not 
used illicit drugs in the past month.

ii)	 The likelihood of an offender engaging in 
drug-motivated theft was about 16 times 
greater for a heavy user of crack cocaine 
compared to an offender who had not used 
illicit drugs in the past month. 

iii)	The likelihood of an offender engaging in 
drug-motivated theft was close to four times 
higher for a heavy powder cocaine user 
compared to an offender who had not used 
illicit drugs in the past month.

iv)	The likelihood of an offender engaging in drug-
motivated theft was one-and-a-half times more 
for a heavy marijuana or methamphetamine 
user compared to an offender who had not used 
illicit drugs in the past month. 

v)	 Even infrequent users of crack cocaine, 
heroin and powder cocaine were found to 
have a higher tendency of committing drug-
motivated theft. For example, the likelihood 
of engaging in drug-motivated theft for an 
infrequent user of crack cocaine was almost 
seven times greater compared to an offender 
who had not used illicit drugs in the past 
month, and two times greater for infrequent 
heroin and powder cocaine users.

Studies that Utilised Within-person Analyses

The strongest evidence showing that drug abuse 
fuels economic crime comes from within-person 
analyses using individual-level longitudinal data. 
Such analyses are able to account for unobserved 
fixed characteristics of the individual that could 
have also influenced the individual’s propensity 
to commit property crimes. These studies show 
clearly that increases in drug use over time are 
associated with increases in the propensity to 
commit economic crimes, even after controlling for 
time-stable differences between individuals.

a.	 Horney, Osgood & Marshall (1995) utilised 
a life-event calendar approach to document 
month-to-month variations in offending and life 
circumstances that could be studied to better 
understand factors associated with changes in 
criminal behaviour. Using data obtained from a 
retrospective survey of 658 convicted inmates in 
the state of Nebraska who were sentenced to the 
Nebraska Department of Correctional Services 
during a nine-month window in 1989-1990, the 
study found that the use of drugs corresponded 
to a 15-fold increase in the likelihood of drug 
crime (e.g., drug dealing) during months of drug 
use. In addition, during months of drug use, the 
odds of committing a property crime increased 
by 54% and the odds of committing an assault 
increased by over 100%. Overall, illegal drug 

21
Special Issue •  January 2020

use increased the odds of committing any crime 
by six-fold. 

b.	 Uggen 
& 
Thompson 
(2003) 
analysed 
longitudinal data on offenders, drug addicts, 
and youth dropouts who participated in the 
National Supported Work Demonstration Project 
to examine the factors influencing changes in 
criminal behaviour. The National Supported 
Work Demonstration Project was an experimental 
employment programme that operated in nine 
cities in the United States. Participants provided 
monthly drug use, income, and crime information 
and were tracked for at least eighteen months, 
which allowed the researchers to track changes 
in circumstances, as well as changes in criminal 
behaviour. The authors found strong evidence 
showing that drug use was an independent cause 
of illegal earnings and criminal activity. Illegal 
earnings were found to rise substantially during 
periods of active drug use. For example, the 
use of cocaine or heroin was associated with 
an increase in illegal earnings of approximately 
USD$500 to USD$700 in the following month.  

c.	 In a follow-up to their 2003 study (Uggen & 
Thompson, 2003), Thompson & Uggen (2012) 
examined the relationship between earnings from 
drug dealings and other forms of illegal earnings 

(e.g., earnings from predatory crimes such as 
robbery and burglary). The authors found that 
drug earnings and other illegal earnings were 
complements rather than substitutes, that is, when 
people began earning more from drug sales, they 
also started earning more from other forms of 
illegal activity, suggesting that they were becoming 
increasingly embedded in the criminal way of life 
beyond just drug dealing. This finding suggests 
that the social harm resulting from drug-related 
economic crimes has a more widespread impact 
that goes beyond just the harms resulting directly 
from the drug trade.

Conclusion

Overall, there is substantial evidence to suggest that 
there is a likely a causal relationship between drug 
abuse and crime. Notably, there have been multiple 
studies covering different jurisdictions that have 
found positive associations between abuse of illicit 
drugs and criminal activity even after accounting 
for the effects of possible confounders. Hence, 
it would appear that drug abusers have a higher 
tendency to engage in criminal behaviour and 
crime, and that drug consumption and trafficking 
fuel other crimes; without drugs, crime rates would 
likely be lower.  

References

Ball, J. C., Rosen, L., Flueck, J. A., & Nurco, D. N. (1982). 
Lifetime criminality of heroin addicts in the United States. Journal 
of Drug Issues, 12, 225-239.

Bennett, T., Holloway, K., & Farrington, D. (2008). The statistical 
association between drug misuse and crime: A meta-analysis. 
Aggression and Violent Behavior, 13, 107-118.

Bennet, T. & Holloway, K. (2004). Drug use and offending: 
summary results of the first two years of the NEW-ADAM 
programme. Home Office Research, Development and Statistics 
Directorate. Research Findings No. 179. London: Home Office.

Boles, S.M. & Miotto, K. (2003). Substance abuse and violence: 
A review of the literature.  Aggression and Violent Behavior, 8, 
155-174.

Chaiken, J. M. & Chaiken, M. R. (1982). Varieties of criminal 
behaviour: Summary and policy implications. Santa Monica, CA: 
Rand.

Coelho, M.P. (2015). Drugs: The Portugese fallacy and the absurd 
medicalization of Europe. Motricidade, 11(2), 3-15. (Letter to the 
Editor).

Dembo, R., P. Hughes, L. Jackson, and Mieczkowski, T. (1993). 
Crack Cocaine Dealing by Adolescents in Two Public Housing 
Projects: A pilot study. Human Organization, 52, 89-96.

Entorf, H. & Winker, P. (2008). Investigating the drugs-crime 
channel in economics of crime models: Empirical evidence from 
panel data of the German states. International Review of Law and 
Economics, 28 (1), 8-22.  

22
Home Team Journal

European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction (2011). 
Drug policy profiles - Portugal. Luxembourg: Publications Office 
of the European Office. 

Felson, R. B. & Staff, J. (2017). Committing Economic Crime for 
Drug Money. Crime & Delinquency, 63(4), 375-390.

Goldstein, P.J. (1985). The drugs/violence Nexus. A Tripartite 
Conceptual Framework. Journal of Drug Issues, 39, 493-506.

Goldstein, P. J., Brownstein, H. H., Ryan, P. J., & Bellucci, P. 
A. (1989). Crack and  homicide in NYC. Contemporary Drug 
Problems, 16(4), 651-687. 

Goldsmid, S. & Willis, M. (2016). Methamphetamine use and 
acquisitive crime: Evidence of a relationship. Trends & issues in 
crime and criminal justice No. 516. Canberra: Australian Institute 
of Criminology. 

Greenwald, G. (2009). Report on Drug Decriminalization in 
Portugal: Lessons for creating fair and successful drug policies. 
Cato Institute: Washington, D.C. Retrieved from https://object.cato.
org/sites/cato.org/files/pubs/pdf/greenwald_whitepaper.pdf

Hammersley, R. (2011). Pathways though drugs and crime: 
Desistance, trauma and resilience. Journal of Criminal Justice, 39, 
268-272.

Hawke, J. M., Jainhill, N. & De Leon, G. J. (2000). Adolescent 
amphetamine users in treatment: Client profiles and treatment 
outcomes. Journal of Psychoactive Drugs, 32(1), 95-105. 

Horney, J., Osgood, D. W., & Marshall, I. H. (1995). Criminal 
careers in the short-term: Intra-individual variability in crime and 
its relation to local life circumstances. American Sociological 
Review, 60, 655-673.

Hughes, C., & Stevens, A. (2010). What can we learn from the 
Portuguese decriminalization of illicit drugs? The British Journal of 
Criminology, 50(6), 999-1022.

Hutchinson, S.J., Gore, S., Taylor, A., Goldberg, D. & Frisher, 
M. (2000). Extent and contributing factors of drug expenditure of 
injectors in Glasgow. British Journal of Psychiatry, 176, 166-172.

Nurco, D. N. & Shaffer, J. W. (1982). Types and characteristics of 
addicts in the community. Drug and Alcohol Dependence, 9, 43-78.

Simpson, M. (2003). The relationship between drug use and crime: 
A puzzle inside an enigma. International Journal of Drug Policy, 
14, 307-319.

Stretesky, P.B. (2009). National Case-Control Study of Homicide 
Offending and Methamphetamine Use. Journal of Interpersonal 
Violence, 24(6), 911-924.

Stewart, D., Gossop, M., Marsden, J. & Rolfe, A. (2000). Drug 
misuse and acquisitive crime among clients recruited to the 
National Treatment Outcome Research Study (NTORS). Criminal 
Behaviour and Mental Health, 10(1), 10-20.

Thompson, M., & Uggen, C. (2012). Dealers, thieves, and the 
common determinants of drug and nondrug illegal earnings. 
Criminology, 50, 1057-1087.  

Uggen, C., & Thompson, M. (2003). The socioeconomic 
determinants of ill-gotten gains: Within-person changes in drug use 
and illegal earnings. American Journal of Sociology, 109, 146-185.

Yablon, D.R. (2011). The effect of Drug Decriminalization in 
Portugal on Homicide and Drug Mortality Rates (Honour’s thesis). 
University of California, Berkeley. Thesis.

About the Author:

Gursharon Kaur Sidhu is a senior manager from the Criminal Justice and Immigration Research 
Directorate in the Research and Statistics Division (RSD), Ministry of Home Affairs, Singapore. She is 
in-charge of undertaking evidence-driven research in the domains of drugs and citizenship and is the ICA 
deskhead for research and statistical matters. Gursharon holds a Master’s degree in Public Policy from 
University College London and a Bachelor in Social Sciences (Second Upper Honours) from the National 
University of Singapore. Prior to joining RSD, she was from the Research and Strategy Management 
Division in the Ministry of National Development (MND), where she worked on various housing related studies for the elderly, 
vulnerable groups (e.g., elderly in rental housing, single parents, families needing assistance) and foreigners. Gursharon was 
also Research Associate at the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies (ISEAS) – Yusof Ishak Institute, Singapore.  

23
Special Issue •  January 2020

Abstract 

This study reviews the impact of cannabis use on individual outcomes, such as other types of drug 
use and life outcomes. In addition, it also examines the experiences of various jurisdictions that 
have legalised cannabis use. Overall, the evidence suggests that there may be multiple negative 
consequences arising from cannabis abuse. In particular, early and repeated cannabis use appears 
to be especially harmful to the individual, particularly for adolescents. At the societal level, the 
case studies on the various jurisdictions that have legalised recreational cannabis suggest that 
legalisation has been associated with negative societal outcomes such as increases in crime, 
abusers who are minors, traffic accidents, and hospital visits.

Societal Impact 
of Cannabis

Background 

The legalisation of cannabis for medical and 
recreational use continues to be a hotly debated 
issue in many countries, even as more jurisdictions 
around the world legalise cannabis for medical 
and/or recreational purposes. Uruguay was the 
first country to legalise the possession, use and 
cultivation of cannabis for recreational purposes 
in 2013. Within the Netherlands, while the use 
and possession of cannabis remains a criminal 
offence, the government has pursued a policy 
of decriminalisation that has allowed licensed 
coffee shops to sell the drug to locals and tourists 
in small quantities (maximum of 5g) for personal 
consumption since 1976. In the United States, even 
though cannabis has remained illegal under federal 
law, the state of Colorado passed laws in 2012 
making it legal to purchase, use and grow cannabis 
for medical and recreational purposes, following 
which a number of other states have then relaxed 
the criminal justice penalties associated with 
marijuana use and possession (Mckeganey, 2015). 

More recently in October 2018, Canada became 
the second country in the world after Uruguay to 
legalise possession and use of recreational cannabis 
at the national level.

The International Narcotics Control Board (INCB), 
an independent and quasi-judicial monitoring body 
under the United Nations, stated in their 2018 annual 
report that the term “medicinal cannabinoids” refers 
to cannabinoids that have been extracted from 
the cannabis plant or synthesised, have had their 
safety and effectiveness evaluated in controlled 
clinical trials and have been licensed for use as 
medicines by medical authority (INCB, 2018). 
Legalising cannabis for medical use then has to do 
with using cannabinoids to alleviate the symptoms 
of certain conditions or diseases. People using it 
for such purposes do not usually feel the euphoria 
that is associated with its recreational counterpart. 
Recreational cannabis on the other hand is used 
without any medical justification and tends to 

Gursharon Kaur Sidhu

Research & Statistics Division, Ministry of Home Affairs, Singapore

24
Home Team Journal

have higher Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) content, 
which is what provides users with a “high”.  INCB 
also noted in their report that programmes for the 
medicinal use of cannabinoids can potentially have 
adverse effects on public health and may increase 
cannabis use for non-medical purposes if these 
programmes are not controlled properly (INCB, 
2018). This also makes the lines between “medical” 
and “recreational” cannabis use fluid and unclear.

This paper examines the impact of cannabis use on 
other types of drug use and life outcomes such as 
employment. In addition, the paper also looks at 
the experiences of various jurisdictions that have 
legalised cannabis use in terms of societal outcomes 
such as crime, road safety, youths and minors’ 
cannabis use rates, and effects on businesses. 
Evidence 
from 
multiple 
sources, 
including 
academic papers and reports from government 
bodies, are examined to elicit insights. 

Link between Cannabis Use and Other 
Drug Use 

Clinical 
and 
epidemiological 
studies 
have 
documented a significant link between repeated 
early cannabis exposure and an increased risk 
of other illicit drug use. This is a phenomenon 
known as the gateway hypothesis, and is an 
important aspect to consider when formulating 
policies on cannabis. Examples of studies that have 
documented this link include:

a.	 Fergusson, Boden & Horwood (2006)’s 25-
year longitudinal study on a birth cohort of 
New Zealand children found that even after 
controlling for both observed and non-observed 
confounders, the increasing use of cannabis 
was associated with the increasing use, abuse/
dependence and diversity of use of other forms 
of illicit drugs at various ages. At age 15, weekly 
users of cannabis were over 60 times more likely 
to use other forms of illicit drugs as compared 
to non-users of cannabis. Although the strength 
of the association decreased with age, the strong 
and pervasive associations were consistent with 
a causal relationship leading from cannabis use 
to the use of other forms of illicit drugs.  

b.	 Golub & Johnson (2002), in a study of serious 
drug abusers in New York City, found that a 
large proportion of their sample (91%) began 
their illicit drug use with cannabis. 

c.	 Kandel, Yamaguchi & Chen (1992) found that 
between 86% and 90% of people using both 
cannabis and other illicit drugs used cannabis 
prior to the use of other illicit drugs. 

d.	 Kandel (1984) reported that 33% of occasional 
cannabis users and 84% of daily cannabis users 
reported using other illicit drugs. 

e.	 Lynskey et al. (2003) studied same-sex twin 
pairs where there was discordancy in terms of 
early cannabis use. The study found that the 
twin who had used cannabis by age 17 was 
about two to five times more likely to use other 
illicit drugs compared to the twin who did not 
use cannabis.

Impact of Cannabis Use on Life 
Outcomes

Cannabis use also appears more harmful when its 
onset occurs in younger versus older adolescents 
in regard to adjustment for the transition from 
young adolescence to young adulthood, education 
attainment, employment, delinquency and ability 
to adapt to an adult role:

a.	 Fergusson 
& 
Boden 
(2008) 
utilised 
a 
longitudinal study design to follow a New 
Zealand birth cohort up to age 25. The study 
found that increasing cannabis use in late 
adolescence and early adulthood was associated 
with a range of adverse outcomes later in life. 
Increasing frequency of cannabis use during 
the period 14 to 21 years was associated 
significantly with the following outcomes by 
age 25: lower levels of degree attainment, lower 
income, higher levels of welfare dependence, 
higher risk of unemployment, lower levels of 
relationship satisfaction and lower levels of life 
satisfaction.  

b.	 Tucker, Ellickson, Collins & Klein (2006) 

25
Special Issue •  January 2020

utilised a longitudinal study design to 
compare psychosocial functioning during late 
adolescence and young adulthood between 
lifetime cannabis abstainers, experimenters (i.e., 
those who had used cannabis on an infrequent 
basis) and those who were frequent users at 
Grade 12. They found that adolescent abstainers 
generally fared better than experimenters and 
frequent users, both concurrently and also later 
in life in terms of school engagement, family 
and peer relations, mental health, and deviant 
behaviour (e.g., skipping school, criminal 
behaviour, disorderly conduct).

Case Studies on Jurisdictions that have 
Legalised Cannabis

In view of the evidence that cannabis abuse can 
have negative consequences for the individual’s 
well-being and life outcomes, it is instructive to 
look at the impact of legalisation of cannabis on 
societal well-being. 

Evidence from the State of Colorado

Colorado was the first state in the United States 
to legalise cannabis for recreational purposes in 
2012 for adults aged 21 years old and older. Given 
that a sufficient number of years has passed since 
cannabis has been legalised, the impact on society 
is likely to be more evident.

One of the direct consequences of legalisation is 
that adult cannabis use in Colorado increased post-
legalisation: when comparing the three years prior 
to legalising recreational cannabis to the average 
of three years after legalisation, adult cannabis use 
increased by 67% in Colorado (Strategic Intelligence 
Unit, 2018). While the increase in adult use might 
not be unexpected, what was less expected was 
that cannabis use by youths and minors increased 
as well. According to the National Survey on Drug 
Use and Health (NSDUH) 2013-2014, Colorado 
led the nation for “last year marijuana use” among 

overall population of cannabis users and “last 
month marijuana use” among 12 to 17 year olds 
(See Chart 1) (Smart Approaches to Marijuana, 
2016). Use of cannabis among 12 to 17 year olds 
in Colorado increased from 9.82% in 2002-2003 
to 12.56% in 2013-2014.1 The percentage of those 
aged 18 to 25 years old using cannabis has also 
been on an upward trend since 2003. Cannabis 
offences in Colorado elementary and high schools 
have increased by 34% from 2012 to 2014 (Smart 
Approaches to Marijuana, 2016). 

Chart 1. Marijuana Use Among the Overall Population 
and 12 to 17 Year Olds in Colorado and United States

Source: Adapted from Smart Approaches to Marijuana 
(October, 2016). Lessons learned after 4 years of marijuana 
legalisation, NSDUH state estimates.

26
Home Team Journal

Another consequence of the legalisation of cannabis 
in Colorado is that it might have increased traffic 
accidents. In particular, traffic deaths involving 
drivers who tested positive for cannabis more 
than doubled from 55 people killed in 2013 to 
138 people killed in 2017, while the percentage of 
Colorado traffic deaths that were cannabis-related 
increased from 11.4% in 2013 to 21.3% in 2017 
(See Chart 2) (Strategic Intelligence Unit, 2018).

Chart 2. Traffic Deaths that were Marijuana-related 
in Colorado

Source: Adapted from National Highway Traffic Safety 
Administration, Fatality Analysis Reporting System (FARS), 2006-
2011 and Colorado Department of Transportation 2012-2017.

There is also evidence to suggest that the 
legalisation of recreational cannabis in Colorado 
negatively affected the workforce. For example, 
large businesses in Colorado reported that they 
had to hire residents from other states as many 
candidates from Colorado failed pre-employment 
drug tests (Smart Approaches to Marijuana, 2016). 
In addition, estimates from the National Survey 
on Drug Use and Health (NSDUH) 2013-2014 
suggests that cannabis users (15%) were more 
likely to miss work in the past 30 days compared 
to alcohol users (7.9%) and the overall population 
(7.4%).   

In terms of the impact of legalisation on crime, one 
of the arguments used to support the legalisation 
of drugs is that legalisation could help to reduce 
crime, particularly crime linked to drugs. To the 
contrary, there is evidence in Colorado that crime 
rates, particularly for crimes linked to drugs, 
actually rose after cannabis was legalised in 2012. 
In particular,

a.	 A report by the Rocky Mountain High Intensity 
Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) task force 
indicated that the crime rate in Colorado has 
been rising faster than rest of the United States 
since legalisation. While crime rates declined 
or remained static in most states, the Colorado 
Bureau of Investigations (CBI) reported an 
8.3% increase in property crimes and an 18.6% 
increase in violent crimes from 2013 to 2016 in 
Colorado (Strategic Intelligence Unit, 2018). 

b.	 Contrary to the argument that legalisation 
would reduce criminal involvement in the 
cannabis trade, organised crime linked to 
cannabis increased significantly in Colorado 
since legalisation, from 31 cases in 2012 to 119 
cases in 2017 (Department of Public Safety, 
2018). 

c.	 A news report by Mitchell (2016) said that 
contrary to expectations, prosecutors have seen 
an increase in homicides associated with the 
black market for cannabis in Colorado after 
legalisation. For example, in the city of Aurora, 
the last 10 of 15 drug-related homicide cases 
were connected to the cannabis trade.  

d.	 Freisthler, Gaidus, Tam, Ponicki, & Gruenewald 
(2017) found that in the city of Denver, areas 
adjacent to neighbourhoods where there were 
marijuana dispensaries saw about 84 more 
property crimes per year as compared to 
neighbourhoods without a nearby marijuana 
store.

27
Special Issue •  January 2020

Evidence from other US Jurisdictions

Apart from Colorado, data on other US jurisdictions 
also suggests that legalisation of cannabis has had a 
negative impact on certain societal outcomes:

a.	 Contreras (2017) looked at medical cannabis 
dispensaries in the City of Los Angeles and 
found these dispensaries to be significant 
crime attractors, especially for homicides and 
robberies. The placement of a medical cannabis 
dispensary onto a block in the previous year 
was associated with increases in crime rates in 
the following year including:  

i)	 a 245% increase in homicides; 
ii)	 49% increase in robbery; 
iii)	44% increase in aggravated assault; 
iv)	38% increase in larceny; and 
v)	 22% increase in motor vehicle theft.

b.	 For Washington D.C., the legalisation of 
recreational sale of cannabis went into full 
effect in February 2015. Spill-over effects were 
observed in Prince George’s County, Maryland, 
where the number of killings relating to the drug 
trade increased from 8 in 2015 to 26 in 2016. Of 
the 26 homicides, 19 were related to the sale 
of cannabis (Smart Approaches to Marijuana, 
2017). 

c.	 In Oregon, the number of cannabis-related 
emergency room visits increased 85% between 
Oct 2015 (legalisation) to Oct 2016 (Oregon 
Public Health Division, 2016). Cannabis-
related cases for children under five years old 
reported to the Oregon Poison Center rose by 
271% between 2014 and 2017, from 14 to 52 
cases (Smart Approaches to Marijuana, 2019).  

Evidence from Canada

In October 2018, Canada legalised possession and 
use of recreational cannabis at the national level 
for adults aged 18 and older. While the amount of 

time that has elapsed is too short for one to draw 
conclusions about longer-term consequences, some 
reports suggest that the legalisation of recreational 
cannabis in Canada might have had some immediate 
negative impact. In particular:

a.	 In the province of Quebec, there were 89 
cannabis poisoning cases reported to the 
Quebec Poison Centre between October 2018 
to December 2018, a large increase compared 
to the 25 cases reported for the same period one 
year earlier between October 2017 to December 
2017 (CBC News, 2019a).

b.	 Contrary to expectations that legalisation would 
reduce the illegal cannabis trade, the Canada 
Border Services Agency reported that cross-
border smuggling of cannabis into Canada 
did not appear to slow down after legalisation 
(CBC News, 2019b).

Conclusion

This review has shown that there may be multiple 
negative consequences arising from cannabis 
abuse. In particular, early and repeated cannabis use 
appears to be especially harmful, particularly for 
adolescents. At the societal level, the case studies 
on the various jurisdictions that have legalised 
recreational cannabis suggest that recreational 
legalisation had a negative impact on certain 
societal outcomes (e.g., increase in crime, abusers 
who are minors, traffic accidents, hospital visits). 
Overall, given the findings, and considering the 
negative effects of cannabis to both the individual 
and society, proposals to liberalise policies on 
cannabis need to take into account these harms.

1 Cannabis use among those aged 12-17 years old decreased 
from 2014-2016 (see ‘Economic and Social Costs of Legalised 
Marijuana’, Centennial Institute, Nov 2018). However, Colorado 
still has the highest rate of first-time marijuana use among those 
aged 12 to 17 years old as compared to other states. In addition, past 
month drug use among those aged 12 to 17 years old continues to be 
above the national average (Smart Approaches to Marijuana, 2019).       

28
Home Team Journal

About the Author:

Gursharon Kaur Sidhu is a senior manager from the Criminal Justice and Immigration Research Direc-
torate in the Research and Statistics Division (RSD), Ministry of Home Affairs, Singapore. She is in-charge 
of undertaking evidence-driven research in the domains of drugs and citizenship and is the ICA deskhead 
for research and statistical matters. Gursharon holds a Master’s degree in Public Policy from University 
College London and a Bachelor in Social Sciences (Second Upper Honours) from the National University 
of Singapore. Prior to joining RSD, she was from the Research and Strategy Management Division in the 
Ministry of National Development (MND), where she worked on various housing related studies for the elderly, vulnerable 
groups (e.g., elderly in rental housing, single parents, families needing assistance) and foreigners. Gursharon was also Research 
Associate at the Institute of Southeast Asian Studies (ISEAS) – Yusof Ishak Institute, Singapore.  

References

CBC News (2019, Feb 3). Instances of cannabis poisoning on the 
rise, Quebec health officials warn. Retrieved September 6, 2019, 
from https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/montreal/cannabis-quebec-
poison-control-1.5004183

CBC News (11 April 2019). Internal CBSA report blames illegal 
pot imports on supply shortages, organised crime. Retrieved 
September 6, 2019, from https://www.cbc.ca/news/politics/cbsa-
pot-border-legalization-1.5090885

Centennial Institute (November, 2018). Economic and social costs 
of legalized marijuana. Retrieved from www.ccu.edu/centennial/
policy-briefs/marijuana-costs/

Contreras, C. (2017). A Block-Level Analysis of Medical 
Marijuana Dispensaries and Crime in the City of Los Angeles. 
Justice Quarterly, 34(6), 1069-1095.

Department of Public Safety. (2018, October). Impacts of 
Marijuana Legalization in Colorado. By Reed, J. K. Division of 
Criminal Justice.

Fergusson, D.M. & Boden, J.M. (2008). Cannabis use and later life 
outcomes. Addiction, 103(6), 969-976.

Fergusson, D.M., Boden, J.M., & Horwood, L.J. (2006). Cannabis 
use and other illicit drug use: Testing the cannabis gateway 
hypothesis. Addiction, 101(4), 556-569.

Friesthler, B., Gaidus, A., Tam, C., Ponicki, W.R., & Gruenewald, 
P.J. (2017). From medical to recreational marijuana sales: 
Marijuana outlets and crime in an era of changing marijuana 
legislation. Journal of Primary Prevention, 38(3), 249-263.

Golub, A. & Johnson, B.D. (2002). Substance use progression and 
hard drug use in inner-city New York. In: Kandel, D.B., ed. Stages 
and Pathways of Drug Involvement: Examining the Gateway 
Hypothesis, pp. 90-112. New York: Cambridge University Press. 

International Narcotics Control Board (INCB). (2018). Report of 
the International Narcotics Control Board 2018, Chapter 1. United 
Nations: Vienna. Retrieved from https://www.incb.org/documents/
Publications/AnnualReports/AR2018/Annual_Re
port/Annual_Report_2018_E_.pdf

Kandel, D.B., Yamaguchi, K. & Chen, K. (1992). Stages of 
progression in drug involvement in adolescence to adulthood: 
further evidence for the gateway theory. Journal of Studies on 
Alcohol, 53, 447-457.

Kandel, D.B. (1984). Marijuana users in young adulthood. 
Archives of General Psychiatry, 41, 200-209.

Lynskey, M.T., Heath, A.C., Bucholz, K.K., Slutske, W.S., 
Madden, P.A.F., Nelson, E.C., Statham, D.J. and Martin, N.G. 
(2003). Escalation of drug use in early-onset cannabis users vs co-
twin controls. JAMA, 289, 427-433. 
 
Mckeganey, Neil. (2015). The Criminalization of (Some) Drug-
Involved People. In Henry H. Brownstein (Ed.), The Handbook of 
Drugs and Society (pp. 371-386). West Sussex, UK: John Wiley 
& Sons.

Mitchell, D. (2016, May 24). Prosecutors: Colorado sees increase 
in homicides motivated by marijuana. KDVR, FOX31 Denver 
News. Retrieved April 2, 2018, from https://kdvr.com/2016/05/24/
prosecutors-colorado-sees-increase-in-murders-motivated-by-
marijuana/

Oregon Public Health Division. (2016, December). Marijuana 
report: Marijuana use, attitudes and health effects in Oregon. 
Oregon Health Authority: Portland, OR.   

Smart Approaches to Marijuana. (August, 2017). The Cole 
Memo: 4 years later – Status Report on State Compliance of 
Federal Marijuana Enforcement Policy. Retrieved from https://
learnaboutsam.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/08/SAM-The-Cole-
Memo-4-Years-Later-Status-Report.pdf

Smart Approaches to Marijuana (October, 2016). Lessons learned 
after 4 years of marijuana legalization. Retrieved from https://www.
pcccarson.org/wpcontent/uploads/2017/02/Lessons-Learned-After-
4-Years-of-Marijuana-Legalization-2016-2.pdf

Smart Approaches to Marijuana (May, 2019). Lessons learned from 
state marijuana legalization. Retrieved from 
https://learnaboutsam.org/wp-content/
uploads/2019/07/2019LessonsFinal.pdf

Strategic Intelligence Unit. (2018). The Legalization of Marijuana 
in Colorado: The Impact, Volume 5. Prepared by Wong, K., Clarke, 
C. & Harlow, T.G. Rocky Mountain HIDTA.

Tucker, J.S., Ellickson, P.L., Collins, R.L. & Klein, D.J. (2006). 
Are drug experimenters better adjusted than abstainers and users?: 
a longitudinal study of adolescent marijuana use. J Adolesc Health, 
39(4), 488-494.

29
Special Issue •  January 2020

Abstract 

Drug crime imposes economic and social costs on societies, both tangible and intangible. In 
estimating the costs of crime by drug users, tangible costs include increased medical resources 
for treatment and rehabilitation, crime and law enforcement, reduced or lost productivity as well 
as property damage and loss. Intangible costs cover psychological pain and suffering and reduced 
quality of life by drug users, families of drug users and victims as well as lost life or premature 
deaths of drug users and victims. Updated dollar costs to society as a result of drug crimes, in a 
way, can provide policymakers an indication on the magnitude of the problems and hence help to 
contribute to informed decisions about allocations of these resources to reduce drug crime. The 
objective of the study is to review existing literature and identify approaches that can be used in 
estimating both the tangible and intangible costs of drug crime.

Costs of Drug Crime: 

Literature Review and Methodology

Euston Quah, Wai-Mun Chia, Tsiat-Siong Tan

School of Social Sciences, Nanyang Technological University

Introduction

Drug crime imposes enormous economic and 
social burdens on societies in the form of increased 
medical resources for treatment and rehabilitation, 
crime 
and 
law 
enforcement, 
psychological 
suffering by abusers and their families, reduced 
or lost productivity, lost life or premature deaths 
as well as property damage and loss. Efforts to 
reduce drug crime often mean competing demands 
on limited public resources. Updated dollar losses 
to society as a result of drug crimes, in a way, can 
contribute to informed decisions about allocations 
of these limited public resources in important ways 
as they could provide added information about the 
magnitude of the problems. More importantly, the 
data on drug crime are essential to evaluating costs 
and benefits of various policy alternatives that 
compete for resources. 

With the emergence and development of reliable 
quantitative methods and techniques in economics 
and statistics, the exercise of calculating the 
dollar losses to society from drug crime has been 
undertaken in various advanced countries. These 
methods and techniques have developed from the 
very crude, used at the beginning of the twentieth 
century, to the more sophisticated, and better 
grounded in economic theory, which are now 
widely used. 

The objective of this study is to discuss and 
identify methods and techniques that can be used to 
estimate reliably the costs of drug crime. To do so, 
we first study the existing literature of costs of drug 
crime research and discuss methods and techniques 
that have been developed to calculate such costs in 

30
Home Team Journal

the literature. We then recommend methods and 
techniques which are deemed most appropriate 
for assessing costs of drug crime in the context of 
Singapore. 

Drugs and Crime

The abuse of drugs can negatively affect all 
aspects of a person’s life, impact their family, 
friends and community, and hence place a very 
high economic and social burden on society. One 
of the most important areas of risk in the use of 
drugs is the link between drugs and crime. The 
link between drugs and crime is a complex one. 
The key question always lies in whether drug 
use actually leads people into criminal activities 
or whether those who use drugs are already 
predisposed to such activities as many people who 
are dependent on drugs were already involved in 
criminal activities before becoming dependent 
on drugs. Moreover, many drug users commit no 
other crimes and many who commit crimes never 
use drugs. However, when the intensity of drug use 
becomes very serious, drugs and crime are directly 
and significantly correlated and drug use actually 
amplifies and perpetuates pre-existing criminal 
activities. 

Empirical associations are well-established between 
drug use and crime. See for examples the works 
by Ball et. al. (1981); Chaiken & Chaiken (1990); 
Gropper (1985), Goldstein (1985) and Watters et. al. 
(1985). Very often, violence is not only associated 
with drug use but is committed to obtain money for 
future drug use. Other types of crime associated with 
drugs include trafficking of illicit substances and 
criminal acts that come along during the process of 
trafficking these substances. Generally, drug users 
also report greater involvement with crime and are 
more likely than other non-users to have criminal 
records, persons with criminal records are much 
more likely to be drug users than others, and crimes 
rise in number as drug use increases (Chaiken & 
Chaiken, 1990). 

Generally, the types of crimes related to drugs can 
be classified into three different categories of use-
related, economic-related and system-related crime: 

a.	 Use-related crime: These are crimes that 
involve individuals who consume drugs, and 
who commit crimes as a result of the effect 
the drug has on their thought processes and 
behaviour.

b.	 Economic-related crime: These are crimes 
that an individual commits to fund his/her 
drug habit. Examples of these include theft and 
prostitution.

c.	 System-related crime: These are crimes that 
result from the structure of the drug system. 
They 
include 
production, 
manufacture, 
transportation, and sale of drugs, as well as 
violence related to the production or sale of 
drugs. 

Costs of Drug Crime

In general, costs of drug crime can be classified as 
tangible and intangible costs. Tangible costs are 
those for which a market value can be calculated. 
When reduced, tangible costs yield resources that 
become available to the society for consumption 
and investment purposes. Such tangible costs can 
usually be quantified with readily available data 
and survey and are usually measured using cost-of-
illness and human capital approach. Tangible costs 
of drug crime include cost of drug consumption, 
increased medical resources allocated to treatment 
and rehabilitation, reduced or lost productivity, 
property damage and loss for victims, and cost of 
crime and law enforcement. Some tangible costs, 
such as victims’ long-term medical expenses, cost 
of crime prevention programmes and averting 
behaviours are difficult to measure. These are 
important costs. However, most studies tend to 
exclude them partly because of lack of quality data 
sources.

Intangible costs, on the other hand, are difficult 
to measure but nonetheless have a real impact on 
society. Unlike the tangible costs, when reduced, 
the intangible costs do not release resources for 
alternative uses. Although difficult to quantify, 
these costs are nonetheless potentially very 
important to people and therefore need to be given 

31
Special Issue •  January 2020

weight. Intangible costs cover psychological pain 
and suffering and reduced quality of life for drug 
users, families of drug users and victims, as well 
as lost lives or premature deaths of drug users and 
victims. 

In the subsections below, we specifically refer 
to the work of McCollister et. al. (2010) in the 
estimation of the costs of drug crime, both tangible 
and intangible.

Tangible Costs of Drug Crime

According to McCollister et. al. (2010), the 
tangible costs of drug crime can be divided into 
three main categories, which include victim costs, 
costs of crime protection and law enforcement and 
crime career or productivity losses. Accordingly, 

a.	 Victim costs include physical injury costs, 
psychological injury costs, property damage 
costs, defensive expenditure, lost productivity, 
pain and suffering, as well as corrected risk-
of-homicide or mortality costs. It should be 
noted that in the case of stolen property, unless 
property stolen is damaged or destroyed, it is 
typically not counted as a social loss because it 
is being seen as a transfer to another member of 
society, in this case, the criminal.

b.	 Costs 
of 
crime 
protection 
and 
law 
enforcement include police protection costs, 
legal adjudication cost, as well as correction 
and sanction costs. Correction costs also 
include costs of incarceration. These costs are 
most commonly labelled as criminal justice 
system costs.

c.	 Crime career or productivity losses are 
opportunity costs associated with law-abiding 
citizens who turn to illegal drug crime careers 
rather than legal and lawful careers that could 
otherwise benefit society. Crimes take time 
to conceive and carry out. This involves 
the opportunity cost of the criminal’s time 
regardless of detection or incarceration. 
When detected and incarcerated, society loses 
productivity from these potential workers. 

The effects of drug crime touch many segments of 
society. As drug crime escalates across a community, 
residents who were not personally victimised are 
affected by fear and psychological distress about 
becoming victims. While this emotional toll is 
intangible, the costs that individuals incur in the 
participation of more aversion activities, such 
as purchasing locks, security alarms, and other 
devices are tangible. These are other external 
tangible costs to society but are not included in the 
study of McCollister et. al. (2010).

Intangible Costs of Drug Crime

In McCollister et. al. (2010), intangible costs of 
drug crime include pain and suffering and corrected 
risk-of-homicide costs or mortality costs. 

a.	 Pain and suffering is the hardest to measure. 
Yet, when measured, they are inevitably the 
largest component of victim costs. For a drug-
user’s family, drug use can impose a lot of 
stress on parents, brothers, sisters and even 
grandparents - anyone who is part of the home. 
Drug abuse can destroy relational capital of 
drug users and their friends and families, either 
physically or in terms of abusing trust. Friends 
and families find it hard to count on them to 
do what they promise. They may lie or steal 
money to buy drugs. Dependence can erode, 
not only the human capital of the users but also 
that of their spouses, children and other family 
members. All these, put together, can lead 
family members to psychological distress or 
even physical injury. 

b.	 Mortality costs are costs of lost life related to 
drug crime. Any attempt to valuing a murder 
victim’s life based on lost productivity covers 
only tangible costs. To account for the intangible 
costs associated with a murder, estimates on 
value of a statistical life are necessary. 

	
 

Methods Used to Estimate the 
Intangible Costs of Victims

Given the importance of intangible costs in the 
overall cost of drug crime, in this section, we 

32
Home Team Journal

discuss in detail some common methods used to 
estimate these costs in the literature.
 
Intangible costs of crime include pain and 
suffering (physical and psychological injuries) 
and mortality cost. Estimating the monetary 
value of pain and suffering for specific physical 
and mental injuries is the most challenging task 
in the estimation of the cost of crime. However, 
despite all the difficulties, it is important to note 
that this component of costs usually constitutes 
a large proportion of the total costs of crime. In 
the United Kingdom, a study conducted by Brand 
and Price (2000) for the Home Office reports that 
more than 50% of the estimated aggregate costs 
of crime appears to be driven by intangible losses. 
Similar findings are also reported for studies in the 
United States where Anderson (1992) finds that 
risk to life and health arising from crime accounts 
for about one-third of the burden of crime. The 
intangible costs to victims of (drug) crime are 
hard to measure because individual well-being 
is a theoretical concept that does not easily lend 
itself to income or monetary equivalents. When 
standard economic theory is applied in the 
estimation of cost of crime, losses in well-being 
are usually translated into monetary values by 
using the concept of either victim’s willingness 
to accept (WTA) or victim’s willingness to pay 
(WTP). 

In the WTA approach, the cost of a crime is 
measured by the amount of money that would 
be required to compensate the crime victim. This 
amount of money should ideally cover all losses 
incurred by the victim, including his or her pain 
and suffering. On the other hand, in the WTP 
approach, the cost of a crime is measured by 
the amount of money a potential crime victim is 
willing to pay to reduce the risk of a particular 
crime would occur to him or her in the future. By 
measuring this risk reduction and money paid, we 
can calculate the cost of the crime to the potential 
victim. 

Most methods for estimating the victim cost 
of crime are based on either the WTA or the 

WTP concept. Six of these methods are briefly 
discussed below.

Cost-of-illness and Human Capital Approach

Cost-of-illness and human capital approach was 
among the first economic evaluation techniques 
developed in medical literature with the principal 
aim to measure the economic burden of a 
particular disease to society. This approach, most 
often, covers only the tangible aspects of costs 
and ignores completely the intangible aspect of it. 
When applied in estimating the costs of victims, 
the approach usually includes short-term medical 
expenses, lost wages, lost productivity and loss 
due to damaged property. In various studies on the 
costs of crime, this approach is used to calculate 
individually the costs of various types of crime 
such as assault, theft and burglary. Other previous 
studies which used this method to estimate the 
cost of drug-related crime are those by Harwood 
et. al. (1984), Rice et. al. (1991) and Cartwright 
(2008) among others. 

One of the main advantages of the cost-of-illness 
and human capital approach is that it relies on 
readily available data and its estimation techniques 
are relatively straightforward as compared to the 
other existing approaches making it one of the 
most commonly adopted methods in medical and 
health literature. Although widely undertaken, 
there are, however, several arguments against 
undertaking and using the results of cost of illness 
and human capital studies. The main criticism 
comes from welfare economists, as to them, the 
cost-of-illness and human capital approach is not 
grounded in welfare economics theory as it ignores 
intangible losses suffered by crime victims because 
no attempt is made to measure victims’ pain and 
suffering. A further argument against the cost-of-
illness and human capital approach is that when 
a crime involves loss of life from homicide, the 
approach proposes calculating it in terms of lost 
productivity and ignores completely the intrinsic 
value of life. As a result, when cost-of-illness and 
human capital approach is used in the estimation, 
it usually tends to substantially underestimate the 
true social costs of crime. 

33
Special Issue •  January 2020

Numerical Crime-ranking Method

The numerical crime-ranking method estimates 
the cost of victim’s pain and suffering by asking 
survey respondents to directly attach numerical 
rankings to each type of crime. Studies using these 
methods include those by Roth (1978), Evans 
(1981), Phillips & Votey (1981) and Byers (1993). 
The numerical rankings can then be converted to 
monetary values through a crime valuation scale 
to estimate the total costs of crime. One important 
criticism of the numerical crime-ranking approach 
is that it is unclear as to how respondents can 
objectively and systematically rank the severity 
of crimes. Another criticism of this method lies 
in its difficulty to carry out a reliable conversion 
to obtain the respective monetary values. In 
fact, among the previously mentioned studies, 
only the one by Phillips & Votey (1981) actually 
takes a step further to convert such rankings into 
monetary values. Other criticisms on the method 
can be found in Cullen et. al. (1985) and Carlson & 
Williams (1993). 

Property-Value Method 

The property-value approach is based on the WTP 
concept. This approach is very commonly applied 
in estimating the value of environmental amenities 
that affect prices of marketed goods. The approach 
is developed based on the assumption that people 
value the characteristics of a good, or the services 
it provides, rather than the good itself. Thus, prices 
will reflect the value of a set of characteristics, 
including 
environmental 
characteristics, 
that 
people consider important when purchasing the 
good. The approach is relatively straightforward 
and uncontroversial because it is based on actual 
market prices which are fairly readily available. 
Multiple regression techniques are first used to 
analyse property value so that a hedonic price 
function which is used to determine the amount 
of property value attributable to nonmarket effect, 
separated from other property characteristics, is 
estimated. The hedonic prices of the nonmarket 
effect are then regressed on the household demand 
characteristics and nonmarket effect to determine 
the willingness-to-pay function. This function is 

used to calculate the change in WTP due to the 
change in nonmarket effect. When this approach 
is used in estimating the costs of crime, after 
controlling for other factors, such as the size of 
dwelling, amenities, age of the structure and the 
likes, analysts can use the partial differential in 
property values with respect to neighbourhood 
crime rates to calculate the dollar amount residents 
in the safer neighbourhoods are willing to pay for 
a lower level of crime. The cost of crime to these 
residents can then be estimated based on this value. 
This approach is used in the studies of Linden & 
Rockoff (2008), Buck et. al. (1991), Buck et. al. 
(1993) and Ceccato & Wilhelmsson (2011). 

The main advantage of the property-value 
approach is that it includes, at least conceptually, 
the intangible costs of crime to potential victims. 
These intangible costs are revealed through 
individuals’ 
utility-maximising 
behaviour 
in 
their choice of where to live. However, the most 
serious disadvantage of this approach is due to 
data limitations making it hard to separate the cost 
of individual types of crimes from the total cost 
of crime to potential victims. Crime-specific cost 
estimates are needed for our purposes because 
drug abusers tend to commit some types of crime 
more often, and others less often, than criminals in 
general. 

Quality of Life Method
 
Like the property-value approach, the quality-of-
life approach also uses the WTP principle but in 
a slightly different framework. The amount of a 
crime victim’s pain and suffering can be estimated 
by first ranking the severity of the physical and 
psychological injuries (Miller et. al., 1993). These 
rankings are then translated into monetary values 
by comparing the loss in quality of life due to the 
injury with the value of an index state such as 
perfect health or a statistical life (Viscusi, 1993). 
For example, consider a minor accident that causes 
an injury in a person such that he/she loses 30 
productive days per year. This injury might be 
ranked at a loss equal to one-twelfth of the value 
of a remaining life, which can be measured by 
estimating the individual’s WTP to reduce the risk 

34
Home Team Journal

of death. However, if a doctor rates the individual 
as being 10% disabled, one could estimate the 
cost of the injury as one-tenth of the value of a 
remaining life. The most attractive feature about 
this approach is that it is generally easier to arrive 
at a victim cost estimate for each individual type 
of crime. The estimates for the cost of each injury, 
however, are quite subjective. These estimates 
can be derived in a number of ways, and no clear 
consensus exists about which way is the best.  

Jury Compensation Method

The jury-compensation method is based on the 
WTA concept but borrows elements of the WTP 
principles. This method was first established in 
Cohen (1988) and Miller et al. (2006) where 
jury- compensation data were used to measure 
the cost of crime. The cost of pain and suffering 
from a particular crime is measured by estimating 
the cost of injuries to the victim. However, unlike 
the other approaches, in the jury-compensation 
method, cost of an injury is divided into observable 
component, such as medical expenses, lost wages 
and other economic losses, and an unobservable 
component, such as pain and suffering. The 
observable component is directly measured through 
interviews with victims or data obtained from 
medical records. The unobservable component 
of pain and suffering is indirectly estimated by 
equating it with the pain-and-suffering damages 
awarded to plaintiffs in civil cases who are asking 
compensation for similar injuries. For instance, 
in Miller et. al. (1996), actual jury awards from 
victims of crimes are used to estimate the pain-and-
suffering damages. If juries were to award injured 
individuals amounts that are larger than their 
observable and measurable economic losses, the 
difference can be attributed to pain and suffering. 
With this, one can obtain estimates for both the 
tangible and intangible victim costs for each type 
of crime by simply examining the combination of 
injuries involved. 

Like the other methods, there are certain criticisms 
on the jury-compensation method. First, it is not 
clear that a particular type of physical injury 
suffered by a crime victim is truly similar to the 

same type of injury suffered by a plaintiff in a civil 
case. Second, estimating crime victim’s pain and 
suffering as a result of psychological injuries is 
especially difficult. There are obvious challenges 
in comparing crime victims’ psychological injuries 
with those from civil cases. Third, not all jury 
awards in civil cases go to the injured plaintiff. 
Part of the award is also used to cover attorney’s 
fees and other litigation-related expenses. If 
juries take these expenses into account when 
compensating victims, then the jury-compensation 
method, which measures pain and suffering by 
looking at the difference between the jury award 
and the observable and measurable component will 
overestimate the intangible cost of crime.

Contingent Valuation Approach

One promising research area is the use of 
contingent valuation (CV) techniques to directly 
elicit respondents’ valuations of pain and suffering. 
For the CV approach, there are many ways to elicit 
willingness to pay estimates through surveys. 
Ludwig & Cook (2001) attempted to value the 
prevention of non-fatal incidents of gun-related 
violence in the United States. Respondents were 
asked whether they would vote, i.e., using a 
dichotomous choice format, for a specified dollar 
tax increase in return for a 30% reduction in gun 
injuries. A second study using contingent valuation 
survey by Cohen et. al. (2004) asked respondents 
to value the benefits of US public programmes to 
reduce criminal offences associated with burglary, 
serious assaults, armed robbery, rape or sexual 
assault, and murder. The mean (annual) WTP 
to reduce incidents of these crimes by 10% was 
estimated for each crime type and taken to be the 
cost of an increased of 10% risk of these crimes. 
These are, by far, the only two stated preference 
studies on crime in the United States. 

Atkinson et. al. (2005) is the first application 
of CV to crime in the United Kingdom. In their 
study, realistic descriptions of the physical and 
mental health impacts of violent crime of varying 
severity were first described to respondents. By 
means of a questionnaire, respondents in a selected 
sample were then asked for their WTP to secure 

35
Special Issue •  January 2020

an improvement or to avoid an undesirable change.  
Later, respondents were asked to value a 50% 
reduction in the risk of suffering from one or other 
of these crime outcomes by means of a payment 
card, with amounts varying from £0 to £5,000. 
Respondents were asked to place a tick against 
that amount which corresponded to the maximum 
they would be prepared to pay for reducing the 
risk by half. Again, the WTP obtained were taken 
to be the cost of an increase in risk of suffering. 
Their findings suggest that the costs of three 
officially classified (statistical) crimes are £5,300 
for common assault (no injury), £31,000 for other 
(moderate) wounding and £36,000 for serious 
wounding. 

While debates between WTP and WTA as to 
which measure should be used in a CV study are 
still ongoing, many researchers believe that CV 
estimates are more accurate when respondents are 
asked their WTP rather about their WTA. In 2013, 
using similar technique, Quah & Chia (2013) 
conducted the first state preference CV study 
of crime risks in Singapore, elicited individual 
preferences, in monetary terms, for changes 
in crime risks in Singapore. In this CV study, 
respondents were first presented with realistic 
descriptions of the physical and mental health 
impacts of violent crime of varying severity. 
Instead of technical terminology, respondents were 
presented a comparable but meaningful description 
of the symptoms likely to be suffered after a crime 
offence and the way these symptoms would affect 
their well-being. The descriptions of three types 
of injuries, common assault, other wounding and 
serious wounding, are the same as those used in 
Atkinson et. al. (2005). Respondents were then 
informed about the annual risk of being a victim of 
crime and asked how much they are willing to pay to 
reduce their own risk of being a victim by 50% and 
99%. Information about WTP is obtained through 
a combination of double dichotomous choice 
payment questions with follow-ups and open-ended 
questions. Respondents were randomly assigned 
a first bid amount with predetermined lower and 
higher follow-up bids used if the respondent 
answers ‘no’ or ‘yes’ to the initial bid. For instance, 
respondent is asked an initial dichotomous choice 
question: are you willing to pay X per annum for 

reducing your own annual risk of being a victim of 
crime against persons and violent property crime 
by 50%, where X is a randomly chosen price from 
one of our three pre-determined values of S$10, 
S$60 and S$80. Those who answer ‘no’ are asked 
if they would pay a lower price and those who 
answer ‘yes’ are asked if they would pay a higher 
price. Respondents giving ‘yes-yes’ or ‘no-no’ 
responses are asked a final open-ended question. 
The bid vectors are: [S$5, S$10, S$20], [S$30, 
S$60, S$120] and [S$40, S$80, S$160]. The 
number of actual survey for each age group was 
determined according to Singapore’s demographic 
structure so that the sample is representative of the 
population of Singapore. 600 Singapore citizens 
and Singapore permanent residents aged 20-64 
were randomly selected from various survey areas 
for face-to-face interviews. Based on the responses 
received, the survival function of WTP was 
estimated and the mean of WTP was derived from 
statistical theory. Their findings suggest that the 
costs of three officially classified (statistical) crimes 
are S$41,197.1 for common assault (no injury), 
S$264,344.3 for other (moderate) wounding and 
S$342,413.0 for serious wounding. These unit 
values are significantly higher than those estimated 
by Atkinson et. al. (2005) reflecting higher WTP 
to reduce the risk of being a victim by Singapore 
Citizens and Singapore Permanent Residents.

Methods Proposed to Estimate the 
Costs of Drug Crime in Singapore

One way to estimate the costs of drug crime in 
Singapore is to classify the tangible and intangible 
costs of drug crimes under three categories such 
as cost to individual, cost to family and cost to 
society:

a.	 Cost to individual includes cost to drug users 
and victims. For drug users, we cover in the 
analysis, the cost of drug consumption, loss 
of productivity and lost life as a result of drug 
intoxication. For victims, costs include lost 
productivity and additional medical expenses 
due to crime; we separately classify cost into 
non-homicide cost and homicide cost. The 
non-homicide offences include assault, rape, 
robbery, housebreaking, theft, motor-vehicle 

36
Home Team Journal

theft, child physical abuse/neglect and child 
sexual abuse. 

b.	 Cost to family consists of both tangible 
and intangible costs. The tangible cost is lost 
productivity and income that could have been 
generated in lieu of providing care to family 
members who are drug abusers. The intangible 
cost is pain and suffering caused to a drug 
offender’s family. For instance, family members 
may experience feelings of abandonment, anxiety, 
fear, anger, concern, embarrassment or even guilt. 
Despite the cost being intangible, they are real. 

c.	 Cost to society at the national level is mostly 
tangible. It includes cost of education, cost of law 
enforcement, and cost of incarceration, treatment, 
rehabilitation and aftercare. Other costs may 
include property damage for victims of crime. 
  

Conclusion

This study provides a roadmap to estimate both the 
tangible and intangible costs of drug crime. Such 
estimates are essential for the evaluation of the 
economic impact of programmes that are designed 
directly and indirectly to reduce drug crime. The 
approaches proposed are standardised techniques 
used in the literature. Breaking down the estimates 
by cost to individual, cost to family and cost to 
society allows policymakers to easily identify the 
most costly components of tangible and intangible 
costs. It should be noted that the reliability and 
comprehensiveness of the tangible costs depends 
crucially on the availability of quality data. It 
is also important to note that the true societal 
impact of drug crime would be significantly 
underestimated if the intangible costs are not 
included in the analysis. 

References

Anderson, G. M. (1992). A sober look at the costs of intoxication. 
Contemporary Economic Policy,10(2), pp. 111–115. 

Atkinson, G., A. Healey, & S. Mourato (2005). Valuing the costs 
of violent crime: A stated preference approach. Oxford Economic 
Papers, (4), pp. 559–585. 

Ball, C., J., L. Rosen, S. Flueck, A., & D. Nurco, N. (1981). The 
criminality of heroin addicts when addicted and when off opiates 
(J. A. Inciardi ed.). Newbury Park, CA: Sage Publications. 

Brand, S. & R. Price (2000). The economic and social costs of 
crime. Economics and Resource Analysis Research: Home Office 
Research Study 217. 

Buck, A. J., S. Hakim, & U. Spiegel (1991). Casinos, crime, and 
real estate values: Do they relate? Journal of Research in Crime 
and Delinquency, 28(3), pp. 288–303. 

Buck, A. J., S. Hakim, & U. Spiegel (1993). Endogenous crime 
victimization, taxes, and property values. Social Science Quarterly, 
74(2), pp. 334–348. 

Byers, B. (1993). Teaching about judgments of crime seriousness. 
Teaching Sociology, 21(1), pp. 33–41. 

Carlson, J. & T. Williams (1993). Perspectives on the seriousness 
of crimes. Social Science Research, 22(2), pp. 190–207. 

Cartwright, W. S. (2008). Economic costs of drug abuse: Financial, 
cost of illness, and services. Journal of Substance Abuse Treatment, 
34(2), pp. 224–233. 

Ceccato, V. & M. Wilhelmsson (2011). The impact of crime on 
apartment price: Evidence from Stockholm, Sweden. Geografiska 
Annaler: Series B, Human Geography, 93(1), pp. 81–103. 

Chaiken, M., J. & M. Chaiken, R. (1990). Drugs and predatory 
crime. Crime and Justice-a Review of Research, 13, pp. 203–239. 

Cohen, M. A. (1988). Pain, suffering, and jury awards: A study 
of the cost of crime to victims. Law & Society Review, 22(3), pp. 
537–555. 

Cohen, M. A., R. T. Rust, S. Steen, & S. T. Tidd (2004). 
Willingness-to-pay for crime control programs. Criminology, 
42(1), pp. 89–110. 

Cullen, F. T., B. G. Link, L. F. Travis, & J. F. Wozniak 
(1985). Consensus in crime seriousness: Empirical reality or 
methodological artefact? Criminology, 23(1), pp. 99–118. 

Evans, S. S. (1981). Measuring the seriousness of crime: 
Methodological issues and a cross cultural comparison. Ohio State 
University, Columbus: Ohio State University, Columbus. 
Goldstein, P. J. (1985). The drugs/violence nexus: A tripartite 
conceptual framework. Journal of Drug Issues,15(4), pp. 493–506. 

Gropper, B. A. (1985). Probing the links between drugs and crime 
/ Bernard A. Gropper. Research in brief. Washington, D.C. : U.S. 
Dept. of Justice, National Institute of Justice, 1985. 

Harwood, H. J., D. M. Napolitano, P. L. Kristiansen, & J. J. Collins 
(1984). Economic costs to society of alcohol and drug abuse and 
mental illness: 1980. National Institute of Justice/ NCJRS paper 
reproduction. 

37
Special Issue •  January 2020

About the Authors:

Professor Euston Quah is Albert Winsemius Chair Professor, Head of Economics at School of Social 
Sciences, Nanyang Technological University and Adjunct Principal Research Fellow of the Institute of 
Policy Studies at the National University of Singapore. He is also President of the Economic Society of 
Singapore since 2009 and Editor of the Singapore Economic Review since 2002. Professor Euston Quah’s 
areas of expertise are Environmental Economics, Resource Allocation and Cost-Benefit Analysis, Law and 
Economics and Household Economics.

Professor Chia Wai Mun is Associate Professor of Economics at the School of Social Sciences, Nanyang 
Technological University. Her research covers topics in International Macroeconomics and Cost-Benefit 
Analysis. She is an associate editor to the Singapore Economic Review. In 2011, she was awarded the 
National Day Commendation Award for her contributions in teaching and research. She holds a PhD from 
Nanyang Technological University, an MSc from London School of Economics and a BSc from University 
of London, all in economics. 

Tan Tsiat Siong is a doctoral researcher at the Interdisciplinary Graduate School, Nanyang Technological 
University. He is part of the Future Resilient Systems, Singapore-ETH (Zurich) Centre, where he works 
on energy usage and investment decisions, and instrument choice. He holds a Master’s degree in Applied 
Economics from the National University of Singapore, and a Bachelor’s degree (First-Class Honours) from 
the Nanyang Technological University.

Linden, L. & J. E. Rockoff (2008). Estimates of the impact of 
crime risk on property values from Megan’s laws. American 
Economic Review, 98(3). 

Ludwig, J. & P. J. Cook (2001). The benefits of reducing gun 
violence: Evidence from contingent- valuation survey data. 
Journal of Risk and Uncertainty, 22(3), pp. 207–226. 

McCollister, K. E., M. T. French, & H. Fang (2010). The cost 
of crime to society: New crime-specific estimates for policy and 
program evaluation. Drug and Alcohol Dependence, 108, pp. 
98-109. 

Miller, T. R., M. A. Cohen, & S. B. Rossman (1993). Victim costs 
of violent crime and resulting injuries. Health Affairs, 12(4), pp. 
186–97. 

Miller, T. R., M. A. Cohen, & B. Wiersema (1996). Victim costs 
and consequences: A new look. National Institute of Justice 
Research Report. 

Miller, T. R., D. T. Levy, M. A. Cohen, & K. L. C. Cox (2006). 
Costs of alcohol and drug-involved crime. Prevention Science, 
7(4), pp. 333–342. 

Phillips, L. & H. L. J. Votey (1981). Establishing monetary 
measures of the seriousness of crime. In The Economics of Crime 
Control (Phillips, L and Votey, H. L. Jr ed.)., pp. 53–73. Beverly 
Hills CA. 

Quah, E. & W.-M. Chia (2013). Valuing the intangible costs of 
violent crimes in Singapore. Nanyang Technological University, 
Singapore, unpublished manuscript.

Rice, D. P., S. Kelman, & L. S. Miller (1991). Estimates of 
economic costs of alcohol and drug abuse and mental illness, 1985 
and 1988. Public Health Reports (1974-), 106(3), pp. 280–292. 

Roth, J. A. (1978). Prosecutor perceptions of crime seriousness. 
The Journal of Criminal Law and Criminology, 69(2/7), pp. 
232–242. 

Viscusi, W. K. (1993). The value of risks to life and health. Journal 
of Economic Literature, XXXI, pp. 1912–1946. 

Watters, J. K., C. Reinarman, & J. Fagan (1985). Causality, 
context, and contingency: relation- ships between drug abuse and 
delinquency. Contemporary Drug Problems, (3), 351.

38
Home Team Journal

Abstract 

This study examines how parental drug abuse and its subsequent consequences impact the next generation. 
For a holistic understanding of the phenomenon, a mixed-methods approach was used. Firstly, we sought 
to understand the extent of intergenerational offending in Singapore by investigating the prevalence 
of offending amongst children with drug-using parents based on a 10-year cohort of drug admissions 
into prison between 2008 to 2017. We then interviewed a group of youth offenders and non-offenders 
whose parents have abused drugs to understand how they have been impacted as a result of parental 
drug abuse. Specifically, we sought to understand what their risk and protective factors in relation to 
their offending behaviour were. Results show that the prevalence rate of intergenerational offending in 
Singapore is at 21.6%. Further analysis of the data found that having only one drug-abusing parent who is 
a mother, increases the likelihood of a child offending. Findings also suggest that both offending and non-
offending youths face similar impacts of parental drug abuse, such as a weak attachment to parents and 
the need for social support. Factors that increase a child’s risk of offending are also shared among both 
offending and non-offending youths and these include various mechanisms that derive from the familial 
and peer environments. Lastly, findings also suggest the importance of enhancing individual and familial 
protective factors to buffer against second-generation offending.

The Intergenerational 
Transmission of Offending 
from Drug-Abusing 
Parents: Understanding the 
Impact of Parental Drug Abuse 
and Incarceration on Children’s 
Offending Behaviour in 
Singapore

Eng Hao Loh, Charmaine Ch’ng Wei Lin, Xiang Long Cheng

Singapore Prison Service

Introduction

Much has been documented about drug abusers 
and their addiction struggles, but have you ever 
wondered how their drug lifestyle has affected the 
people around them? Often, the innocent families 
of the drug abuser suffer from the aftereffects, with 
children in particular, having negative outcomes as 
a result of parental drug abuse. Existing literature 
indicates that children of drug-abusing parents 

have an elevated risk for drug abuse and antisocial 
behaviour (Fergusson, Boden, & Horwood, 2008; 
Marmorstein, Iacono, & McGue, 2009; Pears, 
Capaldi, & Owen, 2007). 

Based on the latest statistics of the Singapore 
Prison Service (SPS, 2017), 70.5% of the prison 
population1 present with a history of drug abuse 

39
Special Issue •  January 2020

Figure 1. Mechanisms of intergenerational transmission of offending. This figure illustrates Farrington et. 
al.’s (2001) six explanations for intergenerational transmission of criminal behaviour.

and nearly 30% of new admissions are due to drug-
related offences. As second-generation children of 
drug-abusing parents are often direct recipients of 
the harmful impacts of parental drug abuse, it is 
important to investigate the far-reaching effects of 
drug abuse to prevent intergenerational offending 
and protect citizens from the resulting harm. 

Mechanisms Underlying 
Intergenerational Transmission  
of Offending

The term “intergenerational transmission” broadly 
refers to the “transfer of individual abilities, traits, 
behaviours and outcomes from parents to their 
children” (Lochner, 2008, p. 413). Farrington, 
Jolliffe, Loeber, Stouthamer-Loeber and Kalb 
(2001) describe six, not necessarily mutually 
exclusive, explanations for the intergenerational 
transmission of criminal behaviour (see Figure 1). 
For the purpose of the current research, this paper 
will only focus on two environmental perspectives 
(Exposure to Multiple Risk Factors and Mediation 
through Environmental Risk Factors) which are 

viable areas for intervention efforts to prevent 
intergenerational offending.

Exposure to Multiple Risk Factors

Farrington et. al. (2001) suggest that crime is 
only one element of a larger cycle of deprivation 
and antisocial behaviour. Individuals who offend 
also exhibit problems in other areas of their life, 
such as unemployment, heavy alcohol use and 
unstable living arrangements. These circumstances 
are transmitted from parents to children as the 
“successive generation may be entrapped in poverty, 
disrupted families, single and teenage parenting, 
and living in the most deprived neighbourhoods” 
(Farrington et. al., 2001:593). According to this 
explanation, criminality is transferred from parent 
to child through the continuity of a pattern of 
disadvantaged familial background features present.

Mediation through Environmental Risk Factors 

A particular emphasis in environmental risk factors 
is the dynamics of the parent-child relationship, with 

40
Home Team Journal

parenting style a key mediator that has received 
much attention in the intergenerational offending 
literature (Goodwin & Davis, 2011; Hoeve et. 
al., 2008). Using self-reports from 424 parents, 
Thornberry et. al.  (2009) found that mothers with 
a history of drug abuse and delinquency were more 
likely to exhibit parenting styles characterised by 
low affective ties to the child, poor monitoring and 
supervision, and inconsistent discipline. Such a 
parenting style in turn, has an impact on the child’s 
antisocial behaviour. 

Attachment to Parents

Dong & Krohn (2015) explored intergenerational 
discontinuity in offending and found that the more 
an adolescent is attached to their parents, the less 
likely they would become a delinquent, even if 
their parents have a serious criminal history. This 
finding is consistent with theoretical expectations of 
the criminological social control perspective which 
states that it is one’s attachment to their parents that 
matters, rather than the criminal characteristics of 
parents themselves (Hirschi, 1969). However, 
a weakening or severing of the elements of this 
social bond increases the likelihood of deviant 
behaviour (Ford, 2009). In other words, the absence 
of parental attachment and ineffective parenting 
controls, such as poor parental supervision, are 
what increases the likelihood of a child’s delinquent 
behaviour (Chapple, 2003). Studies have found 
that adolescents who have close relationships and 
strong bonds with their parents are less likely to 
involve themselves in antisocial behaviour such as 
drug abuse (Bahr, Maughan, Marcos, & Li, 1998; 
Ford, 2009; Mounts, 2002; Seydlitz & Jenkins, 
1998; Sokol-Katz, Dunham, & Zimmerman, 1997; 
Yaacob, Idris, & Wan, 2015). Hence, dimensions 
of attachment, such as affective ties, supervision, 
communication 
and 
identification, 
may 
be 
protecting at-risk children from offending.

The Present Study

Research Aims

Establishing the prevalence of intergenerational 
offending among drug abusers in Singapore 
would allow us to understand the magnitude of 

intergenerational offending and appreciate the 
impact on society. Alongside prevalence data, it 
would also be useful to understand the process of 
intergenerational offending and the mechanisms 
that contribute to these outcomes. This would 
help to make informed decisions on whether 
resources should be directed onto intervening the 
phenomenon.

As such, the current study employed both a 
quantitative and qualitative approach and was 
conducted in two parts. The first part of the study 
sought to find out how many parents have offending 
children out of all drug-abusing parents detained in 
SPS within the past 10 years. The second part of the 
study sought to explore how parental detention in 
Drug Rehabilitation Centre (DRC) for compulsory 
rehabilitation impacts child offending.

Part 1: Establishing Prevalence

Methodology

Procedure

Data was first generated to gather a list of inmates 
who were admitted into the Singapore Prison 
Service (SPS) for drug-related offences2 between 
January 2008 to December 2017. This list was then 
sent to the Immigration & Checkpoints Authority 
of Singapore (ICA) to generate information about 
the offenders’ family (number of children and 
who these children are). Next, the compiled list 
of children was checked against criminal justice 
records in SPS and with the Ministry of Social 
and Family Development (MSF) to verify if they 
have ever been sentenced to prison, juvenile 
homes or placed on probation. Only parents with 
children above the age of 123 were taken into 
consideration when establishing the prevalence of 
intergenerational offending. 

Results

Prevalence

Between 2008 to 2017, a total of 7,880 parents were 
incarcerated for drug-related offences. As of end 
2018, the number of parents who have children 12 

41
Special Issue •  January 2020

Profile of Offending Children

Offending children also tend to begin contact with 
the criminal justice system at a younger age (16 
to 20 years old; µ = 19.57) as compared to their 
parents (21 to 30 years old; µ = 25.01). In terms 
of their criminality, almost half of the children 
have low criminal versatility, where they were 
found to have committed only one type of offence. 
In addition, the top two offences committed are 
property crimes and drug-related offences.

Predictors of Intergenerational Offending

A binary logistic regression was performed to 
test the extent to which certain indicators (e.g., 

years old and above was 5,564 and 1,203 of them 
have at least one child who has offended, which 
places the prevalence rate of intergenerational 
offending at 21.6%. Table 1 presents the proportion 
of children who offended, in relation to their 
parents. Table 2 is a further breakdown according 
to gender. 

Table 1. Proportion of Offending Children

Table 2. Proportion of Offending Children 
According to Gender

Table 3. Chi-square Test

Table 4. Chi-square Test

Comparison between One and Two Drug-
abusing Parents

A Pearson’s Chi-square Test of Contingencies was 
conducted to determine if there was a difference in 
a child’s likelihood of offending between having 
one or both parents as drug abusers who were 
incarcerated. The Chi-square test revealed that 
there was no statistical difference between the 
two groups of children and the proportion of them 
who offended were similar, whether or not they 
had one or two parents who were incarcerated for 
drug abuse (see Table 3). Further exploration found 
that having an offending mother has a statistically 
significant association with the child’s likelihood to 
offend (see Table 4). 

42
Home Team Journal

Table 5a. Model Summary Statistics

Table 6. Variables of Intergenerational Offending

Table 5b. Hosmer and Lemeshow Test

demographic variables) increased the likelihood 
of intergenerational offending. Using the standard 
enter method, the four-predictor model was 
significant, χ²(5) = 366.551, p < .001 (see Table 5a) 
and accounted for approximately 6% (Nagelkerke 
R2) of the total variance. However, along with the 
significant (p < .05) Hosmer and Lemeshow Test (see 
Table 5b), the results indicate that the model could be 
further enhanced with inclusion of other predictors. 

All independent variables were significant factors 
for intergenerational offending (see Table 6), 
with offending parent type (mother) as the most 
significant. Children for whom only the mothers 
had offended were 4.073 times more likely to 
offend compared to children with two offending 
parents4. This result also supports the evidence 
from the Chi-square test that having an offending 
mother significantly increases this risk. Children 
who had more siblings and whose parents had more 
severe criminality, were also more likely to offend.

Discussion

The data used in this study showed that one in 
five drug-abusing parents would have a child 
who offends. Contrary to our expectation that 
having two drug-abusing parents would have a 
greater impact on influencing a child’s likelihood 
of offending when compared to having only one 
drug-abusing parent, the Chi-square test indicated 
no such differences. This is similar to that found by 
Farrington, Coid & Murray (2009), where having 
two criminal parents was not worse than having 
one in relation to the child’s conviction. This could 
be due to the higher chances of a child’s family 
situation being picked up by social care services 
or because the child is being cared for by their 
prosocial relatives, both of which may place them 
in a more protective environment and hence reduce 
the likelihood of offending. 

Impact of Drug-abusing Mother on Child 
Offending

Interestingly, the finding that a drug-abusing mother 
has the greatest impact on her children’s offending 
is in contrast with the prominent intergenerational 
offending studies conducted overseas which found 
that convicted fathers had a higher likelihood 
of predicting child offending than mothers (see 
Farrington, Ttofi, & Crago, 2017). However, the 
current finding is also consistent with other studies 
where maternal imprisonment was found to have 
more adverse outcomes for children (Burgess-

43
Special Issue •  January 2020

20 years old (µ = 16.5, SD = 2.3). Of all youths 
interviewed, 21.7% of them had two drug-abusing 
parents. 

Each interview was audio recorded with the 
participant’s written consent and transcribed 
verbatim by the interviewer for data analysis. 

Data Analysis

Data was analysed through qualitative content 
analysis and thematic analysis (see Vaismoradi, 
Turunen, & Bondas, 2013). Despite the small 
sample size of the non-offending youth sample, 
the themes surfaced in the findings were saturated 
among all the participants. Hence, the results 
presented are still largely relevant across the entire 
sample.  

Results

The thematic analysis revealed various socio-
environmental impacts of parental drug abuse on 
children and findings suggest that both offending 
and non-offending youths face similar impacts of 
parental drug abuse. Factors that increase a child’s 
risk of offending and factors that help protect a 
child from the harmful effects of parental drug 
abuse, are also shared among both offending and 
non-offending youths. In particular however, it 
appears that having more protective factors helped 
to prevent impacted children from moving onto the 
path of offending.

Impacts of Parental Drug Abuse

1.	 Weakened Attachment to Parents 

31 out of 46 (67%) participants reported themes 
of having a weakened attachment to their drug-
abusing parent(s) and/or residual parent. Parental 
drug abuse often leads to parent-child separation 
when parents are arrested and sent to prison for 
rehabilitation. When parents are recalcitrant drug 
abusers, they end up spending a prolonged period 
of time in rehabilitation and the child eventually 
grows up in their absence with a loss of connection 
to their drug-abusing parent. Hence, the parent-
child relationships become weaker and more 
distant over time. 

Proctor, Huebner, & Durso, 2016; Dallaire, 2007; 
Johnson & Waldfogel, 2004; Murray & Farrington, 
2008; Smith & Farrington, 2004). As mothers often 
take on the role of a primary caregiver and children 
are more likely to have lived with and been taken 
care of by their mothers before her imprisonment 
(Glaze & Maruschak, 2008; Mumola, 2000), 
children may have stronger attachment relations 
with their mothers. As such, the missing primary 
caregiver is more likely to cause unstable caregiving 
arrangements. 

Finally, while prevalence rates provide statistical 
information on the extent of intergenerational 
offending as a result of drug-abusing parents, it is 
also important to explore the mechanisms behind 
this phenomenon. There are other variables that 
may mitigate the impact of parental drug abuse and 
incarceration on children’s offending behaviour 
and hence, it cannot be examined in isolation from 
the potential impact of other socio-environmental 
factors. To better understand the impact and the 
transmission of intergenerational offending, Part 2 
of the study was conducted. 

Part 2: Examining the Impact of 
Parental Drug Abuse and Incarceration 
on Children

Methodology

Participants & Procedure

The sample consisted of two groups of youths who 
have parents previously admitted for rehabilitation 
in prison for drug abuse. The first group included a 
mixture of offending male youths (n = 33) recruited 
from the Reformative Training Centre (RTC) and 
Drug Rehabilitation Centre (DRC) in the SPS as 
well as the Community Rehabilitation Centre 
(CRC). 81.8% of them had drug antecedents or 
were incarcerated for drug-related offences. Their 
age ranged from 17 to 21 years old (µ = 19.5, SD = 
1.2). The second group comprised of non-offenders 
(n = 13; 30.8% male) in the community who were 
recruited through convenience sampling with some 
help from non-governmental organisations such as 
Singapore After-Care Association and Singapore 
Children’s Society. Their age ranged from 13 to 

44
Home Team Journal

“Because I don’t feel, I’m not attached to 
him ah. So our relationship also not very 
good la. All along la ‘cause we can’t get 
to communicate to each other ah. I think, 
20 years of my life, the only time I know 
I’m spending with him maybe, one and a 
half years? Or two years, around there.” 
(Participant O18)

Furthermore, when the residual parent is the sole 
breadwinner of the family, they are often busy 
working and do not spend sufficient time with the 
child. Coupled with the idea that their family is 
incomplete, the child often felt that there was a lack 
of family bonding and parental love. 

“Like, incomplete ah… Like, other people 
all, they have their, like family bonding time, 
like they go out together all. But we never… 
Although we are near to each other, we 
are very far. I don’t know how to say. Very 
distant.” (Participant D5)

2.	 Need for Social Support 

As a result of the missing parent figure, the child 
experiences a loss of parental support and often feels 
lonely and neglected. Several participants (30%) 
mentioned not having anyone to talk to especially 
when they faced problems and a few had wanted 
someone to speak to about their parents’ drug abuse. 

“Because your own, your own parents like 
going [in and] out of prison. Then when you 
need them, then they are not around. They 
are not there for you.” (Participant O6)

3.	 Exposure to Drug Environment within the Home

As a result of their parents’ regular drug abuse, 
50% of participants grew up in a dysfunctional 
environment when their home became a drug den 
for their parents and their parents’ drug-abusing 
friends. Children often had immediate exposure 
to the use of illicit drugs and drug utensils (e.g., 
syringes) which were left lying about in the house. 

4.	 Other Adversities Faced during Childhood

As a result of parental drug abuse, participants often 
meet with negative experiences while growing up. 
Their accounts during the interviews presented the 
following categories of adversity: physical neglect, 
emotional maltreatment and negative psychosocial 
development.

Physical neglect. The participants experienced 
physical neglect when their drug-abusing parents 
are neglectful in their parenting. For example, 
they do not perform their caregiver duties and 
are not concerned about their children’s well-
being, seeming to place more importance over 
drugs instead of them. These events are often 
remembered as unpleasant memories filled with 
resentment.

“Last time like when I was young I could 
remember... she don’t really care about me 
because about drugs… she like take care of 
me for a while, then she always disappear, 
she’s not there.” (Participant O5)
	
Emotional 
maltreatment. 
Participants 
also 
experienced emotional strain when bearing 
witness to the arrests of their parents by law 
enforcement officers, which are often unexpected 
and unexplained. As such, they go through various 
emotional stressors such as sadness, shock, 
confusion and fear. In particular, they experience 
terror when they witness their parents’ resulting 
drug behaviours such as domestic violence, where 
they also often end up becoming the victims of 
physical abuse themselves. 

“I think he just took drugs… he became 
very violent. Ya, he.. I think like he call 
my mum names and something like that, I 
can’t remember. And then he, he hold me 
down onto the sofa… Then there’s another 
night also, he sat, I think he sat on my 
mum, like he hold my mum down with his.. 
body weight, so I had to call the police…” 
(Participant N9)

45
Special Issue •  January 2020

Negative 
psychosocial 
development. 
Lastly, 
participants also experienced shame and faced 
social stigma from their friends and relatives when 
their parents are known to have been detained in 
prison for rehabilitation. This affects their self-
esteem and identity, where they feel that they are 
different from their peers. Continuous parental 
absence due to detainment also reinforces their 
perception that their parents do not love them 
enough to desist from drug abuse, which develops 
in them a fear of inadequacy. 

“I mean reality sucks ah. Ah you, realise 
that you don’t really have that things that 
you actually want ah. Like you want a better 
family but in fact you don’t ah… I… *sighs* 
there’s a lot of people out there which are 
very different from me ah. So I feel like… 
weird ah. Feel like I’m the weird one ah. 
They have like good family.” (Participant 
D10)

Factors that Increase Risk of Child Offending

1.	 Poor Parenting Practices

The offending participants were found to have 
engaged in and maintained their offending 
behaviours as a result of inadequate supervision 
and parental control by their parent or their 
caregiver. Over 70% of them had mentioned that 
their parents or caregivers were permissive in 
their parenting style. Parents were also indulgent 
towards their children’s usage of substances such 
as alcohol and cigarettes before the legal age and 
some even encouraged the behaviours because 
they deemed them as harmless.  

“[Father] give me green light already… he 
say “want smoke, smoke inside the toilet, and 
no cigarette, tell me, you don’t go and buy, 
don’t go ask people buy buy all.” [Mother] 
say “you want smoke, smoke at home inside 
toilet, don’t go and smoke outside. You’re 
still underage and stuff.” (Participant O22)

2.	 Presence of Antisocial Environment

An antisocial environment was present for 93% of 
all participants. For the youths who had offended, 
the influence from the antisocial environment was 
enough to lead them onto the path of offending.   

As aforementioned, the children often grow up 
in a drug environment as a result of their parents’ 
drug abuse. They hence become vulnerable to 
the influence of a parent’s drug behaviour. When 
children are constantly exposed to their parents’ 
drug abuse, it is plausible that they may become 
normalised to the antisocial behaviours observed. 
In fact, it was noted that a significant portion of the 
participants developed permissive attitudes towards 
drugs as a consequence of parental drug abuse.

However, the antisocial environment is not only 
restricted within the household but extends to 
the children’s immediate social circle of friends. 
Having drug-abusing peers and being affiliated with 
gangs gave them free or discounted accessibility 
to drugs. As such, almost 20% of the offending 
participants in our study claimed that they had 
access to drugs from their antisocial peers. In 
addition, being with these antisocial peers exposed 
them to antisocial behaviours over a prolonged 
period of time, which led to their normalisation of 
such behaviours. Given the availability of drugs as 
well as normative and liberal attitudes toward drug 
abuse and other antisocial behaviours, the risk of 
engaging in antisocial and offending behaviours 
were exacerbated. 

67% of all participants also often spent time with 
their antisocial peers and many of them cited 
their offending and antisocial behaviours (e.g., 
smoking) to be a result of peer influence. While 
some had engaged in these behaviours as a result 
of peer pressure, others did so because they wanted 
to fit in with their friends. 

3.	 Lack of Parental Presence

As mentioned above, parents may end up 
neglecting their children because of drug abuse and 
incarceration, or because they (residual parent) are 
busy working to support the family. The resulting 
parental absence causes the children to feel a lack 

46
Home Team Journal

of parental love and support. This then leads the 
child to develop the need to seek alternative forms 
of support to fulfil their need for connection. 
Hence, parental absence inadvertently shapes the 
social networks of these children, who end up 
spending a lot of unsupervised time hanging around 
their neighbourhood and increasing their risk of 
associating with antisocial peers who happen to 
loiter in the same neighbourhood. At the same 
time, parental absence signifies the absence of 
parental control and supervision. Without that, the 
likelihood of a child mixing with antisocial peers 
and picking up offending behaviours becomes even 
higher. In fact, some of the offending children had 
specifically mentioned that their parents’ absence 
meant that there was no one to supervise them and 
correct their wrong behaviours. 

4.	 Desire to Connect with Drug-abusing Parent

When a child feels extremely emotionally neglected 
by their parents’ constant attention on drugs and 
cannot understand their decision to do so, they seek 
to comprehend their situation by following in the 
same footsteps as their drug-abusing parent. To 
these children, they felt the need to take drugs as 
well so that they could get closer to their parents and 
understand why their parents “choose” drugs over 
them. However, they ended up becoming victims to 
drug addiction. While they derived understanding 
on their parents’ drug abuse, they could not remove 
themselves from the pitfall they had gotten into. 

“Because of her. Because uh, I want to 
know how it feels. You get - you get what I 
mean? … I tell her not to take drug, but she 
still take drug. Why she never listen to me? 
That’s why I take drug. I want to experience 
what she experienced… Because I love my 
mum.. so.. so hard. I love her, since I’m 
young. I really want a good relationship with 
her and my sisters, but she keep on taking 
drugs. That’s where I hate everything in my 
life and I involved in drugs. Ah, that’s why 
I want to experience what she experienced. 
Cause she’s been taking drugs more than 

5 times, she went in more than 5 time, and 
she never learn from her mistake. I want to 
experience what is - what she experienced.” 
(Participant D3)

Onset of Child Offending Behaviour

The confluence of the aforementioned mechanisms 
has been found to be most prominent during a 
specific age period of adolescence. Based on 
the information gathered from the interviews, 
the crucial age window for offending behaviour 
appeared to be between 11 to 14 years of age, where 
a child is in his developmental stage of identity 
seeking. In fact, 67% of all participants mentioned 
that they had started their problematic antisocial 
(e.g., underage smoking, stealing and fighting) and 
offending behaviours during early adolescence. 
Hence, the chances of picking up bad behaviour 
and offending are also aggravated when the impacts 
of parental drug abuse and incarceration lead early 
adolescents to seek antisocial peer support outside 
of the home.

Protective Factors against Harmful Effects of 
Parental Drug Abuse

There are however, protective factors that can 
buffer against the harmful effects of parental drug 
abuse and incarceration. It also appears that having 
more of these factors helped prevent affected 
children from heading onto an offending path. 

1. Strong Prosocial Support

28% of all participants mentioned that having a 
strong availability of prosocial support, be it from 
family or friends, helped to minimise the negative 
impact of parental drug abuse and incarceration. 
Often, this support also came from the residual 
parent who did not abuse drugs and had continued 
to carry out their parenting roles effectively. Along 
with other caregivers and relatives, these multiple 
figures of support provided the necessary warmth 
and nurture to ensure that the impacted children are 
still well-taken care of and supported emotionally, 
physically and mentally. For these children, having 
someone to speak to about their problems also 
helped them to cope with their negative feelings 

47
Special Issue •  January 2020

about their parents’ drug abuse, incarceration  
and absence. 

“She…always come back from work, 
she always kiss us, to remind that she’s 
still there for us la. Then every morning 
when we sleep she put the blanket over us 
la. Yea, feel loved la… I receive enough 
care. I would say that my mother is still 
better than some other mum out there la. 
Because I think I saw some mum when 
the husband go inside then the mum also 
start taking drugs all. What I want to say 
is my mum is a strong lady la, I appreciate 
her la.” (Participant N4)

2. Constructive Use of Time

Almost one fifth of all impacted children also 
mentioned that they were not as heavily impacted 
by their parents’ drug abuse and incarceration 
when they were kept occupied with other prosocial 
activities. For example, having active engagement 
in school or aftercare activities and arrangement, as 
well as bonding with their family members, helped 
to take their mind off the negative thoughts relating 
to their drug-abusing parents’ absence when they 
are detained in prison. 

Discussion

Impacts of Parental Drug Abuse and 
Incarceration on Children

The themes that emerged from the qualitative 
analysis provide insight into the impacts of parental 
drug abuse and incarceration on children and how it 
can lead to second-generation offending. Findings 
are largely consistent with the experiences of 
addicted youths who grew up in substance abuse 
families (as documented in Hedges, 2012), which 
mentioned that the constant exposure to substance 
use within their home normalised the behaviour from 
a young age and led to their eventual substance use. 
Findings are also consistent with literature on the 
impact of parental incarceration on children, which 
has been posited to be a traumatic event in their 

lives and results in long-term economic, emotional 
and social consequences that negatively affect their 
well-being (Hairston, 2007; Mears & Siennick, 
2016). From our study, it appears that parental 
drug abuse has an impact on the environmental risk 
factors of the second generation. It is these negative 
childhood experiences that are further exacerbated 
when the parents are eventually absent as a result 
of detainment for compulsory rehabilitation in the 
DRC. 

Transmission of Offending from Drug-abusing 
Parents

Results from the current study show that the 
transmission of offending can be understood 
as an interaction of social control and social 
learning variables operating in a vulnerable 
period of adolescence. Going back to the social 
control perspective, weakened attachments with 
social control agents (e.g., parents and school), 
especially in cases of ineffective parenting, allows 
delinquency to occur (Chapple, 2003). 

Based on our current findings, it is posited that 
weakened 
parent-child 
bonds 
was 
strongly 
associated with poor parental control and 
supervision, ultimately leading up to the offending 
children’s antisocial behaviour. As for social 
learning, findings from the current study suggest 
that the exposure to an antisocial environment 
provides learning opportunities about problem 
behaviour. Exposure to an antisocial environment 
is therefore associated with the modelling of 
antisocial attitudes and normalising of antisocial 
behaviour such as cigarette and drug abuse 
from parents and peers, which then increase the 
children’s risk of engaging in antisocial behaviour. 

Protective Mechanisms that Mitigate Risk for 
Intergenerational Offending

There are also protective mechanisms that can 
help to buffer the risk for offending, which are 
also supported by literature. Prosocial support 
and activities can help children spend their time 
constructively, which keeps them occupied and 
results in a lower chance of them hanging around 
their neighbourhood unsupervised and associating 

48
Home Team Journal

with antisocial peers. Also, by being strongly 
connected to school and invested in conventional 
activities and outcomes, children are less likely to 
engage in antisocial behaviours and use substances 
as that would jeopardise school aspirations, both in 
the present and the future (Ford, 2009). 

Tying it Altogether

Putting it all into perspective, the transmission 
of offending can be explained by social control 
(weakened parent-child attachment) and social 
learning (presence of antisocial environment) 
factors that are present as a result of parental 
drug abuse and incarceration. The effects of 
these factors are also most prominent during 
a period of adolescence. The transmission of 
offending from drug-abusing parents can thus be 
demonstrated by a psychosocial control model of 
adolescent delinquency as put forth by Curcio, 
Mak & George (2017). The model posits that 
adolescents with weakened attachments to social 
control agents (e.g., parents, school, and values), 
and personal control factors of high impulsivity 
and low empathy, were more likely to engage in 
delinquency. Further, Curcio et. al. (2017) found 
that peer influence or peer risk-taking behaviour, 
was a significant predictor and along with 
sensation seeking, explained most of the variance 
in predicting delinquency for adolescents aged 13 
to 14 years old. 

The transmission of intergenerational offending from 
parent to child can thus be understood as a result 
of circumstances; it is through the amalgamation 
of the various impacts of parental drug abuse and 
incarceration, along with the risk factors in the child’s 
life which most often led up to and perpetuated their 
offending behaviour. This is especially pertinent in 
the absence of protective factors.

Conclusion

The current research addresses three main 
questions: (1) to what extent is intergenerational 
offending prevalent among drug abusers in 
Singapore, (2) what is the impact of parental drug 
abuse and incarceration on the second generation, 

and (3) how can we mitigate the impacts 
experienced? The research contributes in various 
ways to advance knowledge in our understanding 
of intergenerational offending within the context 
of drug abusers and it is the first in Singapore to 
examine the phenomenon. The corroboration of 
quantitative and qualitative data also enabled a 
clearer and rich understanding of the magnitude of 
intergenerational offending in Singapore as a result 
of drug-abusing parents and the impacts it has on 
the second-generation. 

The current research raises the importance of 
parents and their caregiving roles in impacting 
a child’s antisocial behaviours. It also serves to 
highlight that the second-generation inadvertently 
suffers the consequences of parental drug abuse. 
As a result, children of drug-abusing parents 
constitute a vulnerable group in the community 
and they should be provided with the necessary 
support to reduce the negative impact experienced 
as a result of parental drug abuse and incarceration, 
as well as to prevent second-generation offending.

Acknowledgements

We would like to thank Singapore After-Care Association 
and Singapore Children’s Society, as well as our former 
research officer Ms Chee Shu Jia, for their valuable 
contributions to this research piece. Most importantly, we 
would also like to thank our Deputy Director, Dr Gabriel 
Ong Tzong Hwang (Psychological Research, Operations 
& Programme Design; Singapore Prison Service) for his 
continuous guidance, support and encouragement for the 
research project.

1 Includes Penal, DRC, Remand and Criminal Law Detainee (CLD) 
inmate populations as of 31st December 2017.

2 Drug-related offences can include drug consumption, possession, 
and trafficking.

3 Those with a child below 12 years old were not included in this 
calculation as the number of children below 12 years old who come 
into contact with the law is very low. This could possibly be due to 
the offending children being let off with a warning. 12-21 years old 
is also the age range of youth offenders in Singapore (Chng, Chu, 
Zeng, Li, & Ting, 2016).

4 When compared to children where only the fathers had offended, 
the likelihood of the child offending is 1.780 times.  

49
Special Issue •  January 2020

References

Bahr, S.J., Maughan, S.L., Marcos, A.C., & Li, B. (1998). 
Family, Religiosity, and the Risk of Adolescent Drug Use. 
Journal of Marriage & Family, 60(4), 979–992. https://doi.
org/10.2307/353639

Burgess-Proctor, A., Huebner, B.M., & Durso, J.M. (2016). 
Comparing the effects of maternal and paternal incarceration on 
adult daughters’ and sons’ criminal justice system involvement: A 
gendered pathways analysis. Criminal Justice and Behavior, 43(8), 
1034-1055. doi:10.1177/0093854816643122

Chapple, C.L. (2003). Examining intergenerational violence: 
Violent role modeling or weak parental controls? Violence and 
Victims, 18(2), 143-162.

Chng, G.S., Chu, C. M., Zeng, G., Li, D., & Ting, M.H. (2016). 
A latent class analysis of family characteristics linked to youth 
offending outcomes. Journal of Research in Crime & Delinquency, 
53(6), 765-787. 

Curcio, A.L., Mak, A. S., & George, A.M. (2017). Predictors 
of delinquency among adolescents and young adults: 
A new psychosocial control perspective. Australian & 
New Zealand Journal of Criminology, 50(2), 155-175. 
doi:10.1177/0004865816628594

Dallaire, D.H. (2007). Incarcerated mothers and fathers: A 
comparison of risks for children and families. Family Relations, 
56(5), 440-453. doi:10.1111/j.1741-3729.2007.00472.x

Dong, B., & Krohn, M.D. (2015). Exploring intergenerational 
discontinuity in problem behavior: Bad parents with good 
children. Youth Violence and Juvenile Justice, 13(2), 99-122. 
doi:10.1177/1541204014527119

Farrington, D.P., Coid, J.W., & Murray, J. (2009). Family factors 
in the intergenerational transmission of offending. Criminal 
Behaviour and Mental Health, 19(2), 109-124. doi:10.1002/
cbm.717

Farrington, D.P., Jolliffe, D., Loeber, R., Stouthamer-Loeber, M., & 
Kalb, L.M. (2001). The concentration of offenders in families, and 
family criminality in the prediction of boys’ delinquency. Journal 
of Adolescence, 24(5), 579-596. doi:10.1006/jado.2001.0424

Farrington, D.P., Ttofi, M.M., & Crago, R.V. (2017). 
Intergenerational transmission of convictions for different types of 
offenses. Victims & Offenders, 12(1), 1-20. doi:10.1080/15564886
.2016.1187693

Fergusson, D.M., Boden, J.M., & Horwood, L.J. (2008). The 
development antecedents of illicit drug use: Evidence from a 
25-year longitudinal study. Drug and Alcohol Dependence, 96, 
165-177. 

Ford, J.A. (2009). Nonmedical prescription drug use among 
adolescents: The influence of bonds to family and school. Youth & 
Society, 40(3), 336-352. doi:10.1177/0044118X08316345

Glaze, L.E., & Maruschak, L.M. (2008). Parents in prison and 

their minor children. Bureau of Justice Statistics Special Report. 
Washington, DC: U.S. Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice 
Statistics. Retrieved from https://www.bjc.gov/content/pub/pdf/
pptmc.pdf

Goodwin, V., & Davis, B. (2011). Crime families: Gender and the 
intergenerational transfer of criminal tendencies. Trends and issues 
in crime and criminal justice, (414), 1.

Hairston, C.F. (2007). Focus on children with incarcerated 
parents: An overview of the research literature. Baltimore, MD: 
Annie E. Casey Foundation.

Hedges, K.E. (2012). A family affair: Contextual accounts from 
addicted youth growing up in substance using families. Journal of 
Youth Studies, 15(3), 257. doi:10.1080/13676261.2011.635194

Hirschi, T. (1969). Causes of delinquency. Berkeley, CA: 
University of California Press. 

Hoeve, M., Blokland, A., Dubas, J.S., Loeber, R., Gerris, J.R.M., 
& Laan, P.H.v.d. (2008). Trajectories of delinquency and parenting 
styles. Journal of Abnormal Child Psychology, 36(2), 223-235. 
doi:10.1007/s10802-007-9172-x

Johnson, E.I., & Waldfogel, J. (2004). Children of incarcerated 
parents: Multiple risks and children’s living arrangements. In 
Pattillo, M., Weiman, D., & Western, B. (Eds.), Imprisoning 
america: The social effects of mass incarceration (pp. 97-132). 
New York, NY: Russell Sage Foundation

Lochner, L. (2008). Intergenerational transmission. In S.N. Durlauf 
& L.E. Blume (Eds.), The New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics 
(pp. 413-417). London, UK: Palgrave Macmillan. 

Marmorstein, N.R., Iacono, W.G., & McGue, M. (2009). Alcohol 
and illicit drug dependence among parents: Associations with 
offspring externalising disorders. Psychological Medicine, 39(1), 
149-155. 

Mears, D.P., & Siennick, S.E. (2016). Young adult outcomes 
and the life-course penalties of parental incarceration. 
Journal of Research in Crime and Delinquency, 53(1), 3-35. 
doi:10.1177/0022427815592452

Mounts, N.S. (2002). Parental management of adolescent peer 
relationships in context: The role of parenting style. Journal of 
Family Psychology, 16(1), 58-69. doi:10.1037/0893-3200.16.1.58

Mumola, C.J. (2000). Incarcerated parents and their children. 
Bureau of Justice Statistics Special Report. Washington, DC: U.S. 
Department of Justice, Bureau of Justice Statistics. Retrieved from 
https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED448903.pdf

Murray, J., & Farrington, D. (2008). The effects of parental 
imprisonment on children. Crime and Justice, 37(1), 133-206. 
doi:10.1086/520070

Pears, K., Capaldi, D.M., & Owen, L.D. (2007). Substance use risk 
across three generations: The roles of parent discipline practices 

50
Home Team Journal

and inhibitory control. Psychology of Addictive Behaviors, 21(3), 
373-386. doi:10.1037/0893-164X.21.3.373

Seydlitz, R., & Jenkins, P. (1998). The influence of families, 
friends, schools, and community on delinquent behavior. In T. 
P. Gullotta, G. R. Adams, & R. Montemayor (Eds.), Delinquent 
violent youth: Theory and interventions (pp. 53-97). Thousand 
Oaks, CA: Sage.

Singapore Prison Service. (2017). 2017 SPS Annual Statistics 
Release. Retrieved from https://www.sps.gov.sg/docs/default-
source/stats-release/sps-annual-stats-release-for-2017_520kb.
pdf?sfvrsn=2 

Smith, C.A., & Farrington, D.P. (2004). Continuities in antisocial 
behavior and parenting across three generations. Journal of Child 
Psychology and Psychiatry, 45(2), 230-247. doi:10.1111/j.1469-
7610.2004.00216.x

About the Authors:

Loh Eng Hao (BA, MA) is a psychologist employed at Singapore Prison Service (SPS). He has been 
working at the Correctional Research Branch since 2014 and has been involved in research projects looking 
into several areas such as reintegration and addiction-related issues. Asides from his research work, Eng 
Hao is also involved in carrying out clinical interventions as well as risk assessments for inmates housed 
within the Prison’s jurisdiction.

Charmaine Ch’ng Wei Lin graduated with a Bachelor in Psychology (Hons Class IIA) in 2015 and has 
been a Research Officer with Singapore Prison Service (SPS) since 2016. She has been involved in various 
research projects that contribute to understanding offending as well as the evaluation and improvement 
of prison rehabilitation regimes and programmes. One of her main projects involves understanding the 
intergenerational transmission of offending, of which she has presented to local and international delegates 
at various conferences such as the Yellow Ribbon Conference (2018) and Asian Conference of Criminal 
and Operations Psychology (ACCOP 2019). In addition, she also helps to evaluate and facilitate internal and external research 
requests to SPS by assessing the robustness of research methods and ensuring that they adhere to ethical guidelines. 

Cheng Xiang Long graduated with a Bachelor of Social Sciences in Psychology (2nd Upper), and 
joined Singapore Prison Service (SPS) as a psychologist in 2008. He completed his Master’s Degree in 
Psychology (Clinical) and returned to SPS as a psychologist in 2014. He is currently a Lead Psychologist, 
and is the Senior Assistant Director of the Correctional Research Branch. In his current role, he conducts 
assessments and intervention for adult violent and sex offenders, and offenders with mental illnesses. He 
also supervises other psychologists in their assessment and intervention work. Additionally, he oversees a 
team of psychologists and research officers in conducting research on offenders’ needs and trends to inform policy and practice 
of rehabilitation in SPS.

Sokol-Katz, J., Dunham, R., & Zimmerman, R. (1997). Family 
structure versus parental attachment in controlling adolescent 
deviant behavior: A social control model. Adolescence, 32(125), 
199. 

Thornberry, T.P., Freeman-Gallant, A., & Lovegrove, P.J. (2009). 
Intergenerational linkages in antisocial behaviour. Criminal 
Behaviour and Mental Health, 19(2), 80-93. doi:10.1002/cbm.709

Vaismoradi, M., Turunen, H., & Bondas, T. (2013). Content 
analysis and thematic analysis: Implications for conducting a 
qualitative descriptive study. Nursing & health sciences, 15(3), 
398-405.

Yaacob, S.N., Idris, F.A., & Wan, G.S. (2015). Parental attachment, 
coping efficacy and antisocial behavior among adolescents from 
divorced family in Selangor, Malaysia. Journal of Management 
Research, 7(2), 364-374.

51
Special Issue •  January 2020

Abstract 

The Ministry of Home Affairs, Singapore, conducted a public perception survey in 2018 to better 
understand Singaporeans’ perception of drugs and Singapore’s drug situation, and to gauge their 
support for Singapore’s policies governing drug consumption, possession and trafficking. The 
survey found that a vast majority of respondents perceived drugs as harmful and wished to live 
in a drug-free society. A large majority also felt that our drug-related policies were effective, and 
indicated that they supported these policies.  

Public Perception 
towards Singapore’s 
Anti-drug Policies

Suet Lay Liang

Research and Statistics Division, Ministry of Home Affairs, Singapore

Introduction

It is well documented that drug consumption, 
possession and trafficking harm lives and families, 
as well as create societal and economic problems 
for a nation. 

Hence, Singapore adopts a zero-tolerance approach 
towards drugs, with the mission to create a drug-
free society for Singapore, by having tough 
laws on drugs and by educating Singaporeans 
about the harms of drugs through structured and 
comprehensive Preventive Drug Education (PDE) 
programmes and initiatives. 

As Singapore’s stance on drugs is an integral part 
of the country’s policy landscape for ensuring 
safety and security, it is important to understand the 
level of public support for these policies.   Hence, 
the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) conducted 
a public perception survey in 2018 to find out 
Singaporeans’ perceptions of drugs and Singapore’s 

drug situation, and to gauge their support for 
Singapore’s policies governing drug consumption, 
possession and trafficking.   

Survey Methodology

Participants

A survey company was appointed to conduct face-
to-face interviews with 2,000 Singapore residents 
between July and October 2018 on behalf of MHA. 
This survey was based on a representative random 
sample of 1,500 Singapore Citizens and Singapore 
Permanent Residents, aged 13 and above. An 
additional 500 youths, aged 13 to 30 years old
1 , were 
also interviewed for the purposes of understanding 
if there were any differences in opinion between 
the younger and older respondents, as past studies 
have showed that younger people had a more 
liberal mind-set towards drugs. For example, the 

52
Home Team Journal

National Council Against Drug Abuse’s (NCADA) 
Youth and Public Perception Survey (NCADA, 
2017) found that around a third of youths perceived 
cannabis to be less harmful or non-addictive, and 
that the proportion of younger adults (aged 13 to 
30) who held liberal attitudes towards drugs in 
general increased from 11% in 2013 to 16% in 
2016.

Procedure

The survey data collected was cleaned and coded. 
The overall survey findings were also weighted 
to be representative of the Singapore resident 
population’s age at the national level.

Key Survey Findings

Public Perception of Drug Harms

A vast majority – more than 97% – of the 
respondents acknowledged the harms of drugs on 
the abuser, his/her family, and the society. Almost 
all (98.1%) also wished to live in a drug-free 
society (see Table 1).

Public Perception of Singapore’s Drug Situation

A large majority of respondents had a positive 
view of Singapore’s drug situation. 92.7% of the 
respondents felt safe in Singapore’s drug-free 
environment and 89.0% agreed that our drug laws 
were effective in keeping the country relatively 
drug-free, while 80.5% agreed that the drug situation 
in Singapore is under control (see Table 2).

Table 1. Survey Findings on Public Perception 
of Drug Harms

Table 2. Survey Findings on Public Perception of 
Singapore’s Drug Situation

Support for Singapore’s Anti-drug Policies

Support for Singapore’s drug-related policies was 
also very high. The vast majority felt that we should 
continue to maintain tough laws to keep drugs out 
of Singapore (97.8%) and that drug-taking should 
remain illegal in Singapore (97.5%) (see Table 3).
 

Table 3. Survey Findings on Support for Singapore’s 
Anti-drug Policies

53
Special Issue •  January 2020

Support for Existing Punishments against Drug 
Trafficking

Most respondents endorsed imprisonment (93.0%) 
and caning (80.1%) as appropriate punishment 
for drug trafficking offences. A large majority 
of 69.6% also agreed that the death penalty was 
an appropriate punishment for trafficking a large 
amount of drugs (see Table 4). 
 

Support for Mandatory Rehabilitation of Drug 
Abusers

There was a firm belief on the importance of 
rehabilitation. 97.6% of respondents agreed that 
drug abusers should undergo rehabilitation and 
95.5% supported mandating rehabilitation of drug 
abusers (see Table 5).  
 

Support against Legalisation of Drugs

Support against legalisation of drugs was high. 
97.5% agreed that drug-taking should remain 
illegal in Singapore for drugs in general, and 
87.1% agreed that cannabis abuse should 
remain illegal in Singapore (see Table 6). 	
 
 

Youth Attitudes towards Drugs

In terms of perceptions of drug harms and 
Singapore’s drug situation, youths (i.e., respondents 
aged 13 to 30 years old) and respondents aged over 
30 held similar views.

However, in terms of support for drug-related 
policies, youths were relatively less supportive 
of the death penalty for drug traffickers; a slight 
majority of 52.7% of youths felt it was appropriate, 
compared to a large majority of 74.6% among 
those aged over 30. 

A large majority (79.9%) of youths agreed that 
cannabis should remain illegal. However, this is 
lower than the 89.2% among those aged over 30 
that agreed (see Table 7).

Table 4. Survey Findings on Support for Existing 
Punishments against Drug Trafficking

Table 6. Survey Findings on Support against 
Legalisation of Drugs

Table 5. Survey Findings on Support Mandatory 
Rehabilitation of Drug Abusers

54
Home Team Journal

Table 7. Survey Findings of Key Questions by the Two Main Age Groups (i.e., 13 – 30 years old and above 30 years old)

1 For respondents aged 18 and below, consent from their parent 
was obtained before they were administered the survey.

Conclusion 

A vast majority of the respondents acknowledged 
the harms of drugs on the abuser, his/her family, and 
the society; and had a positive view of Singapore’s 
drug situation. The support for Singapore’s drug-
related policies was also very high.  

Support for Singapore’s drug-related policies 
among the youths is also generally strong, although 
to a lesser degree compared to older respondents. 
In this regard, working on improving awareness 
of the harms of drugs among youths should be a 
priority area for the Central Narcotics Bureau and 
the National Council Against Drug Abuse. 
 

Acknowledgements

Special thanks to our MHA colleagues from 
the Policy Development Division, Community 
Partnership and Communications Group and the 
Central Narcotics Bureau who have contributed to 
the success of this survey. 

References

National Council Against Drug Abuse (NCADA). (2017, 27 April). 
Youth and Public Perception Survey 2015/2016. 
Retrieved from https://www.ncada.org.sg/what-we-know/youth-
and-public-perception-survey-2015-2016

About the Author:

Liang Suet Lay is an Assistant Director in the Research & Statistics Division, Ministry of Home Affairs, 
Singapore, where she looks into Criminal Law and Safety Research, for example research on crime 
perception, crime prevalence and public perception towards crime legislation in Singapore. Ms Liang has a 
Bachelor Degree in Science, majoring in Economics, and a Master Degree in Information Studies.

55
Special Issue •  January 2020

Abstract 

One of the rationales for the use of capital punishment in Singapore has been that it deters 
potential offenders from engaging in crimes that are punishable with the death penalty. This study 
utilised historical data from the Central Narcotics Bureau’s case files to investigate whether key 
amendments to Singapore’s death penalty regime for drug trafficking that had been introduced 
in 1990 had a deterrent effect on drug trafficking behaviour. The study represents one of the first 
efforts in the empirical capital punishment literature to attempt to quantify the deterrent impact 
of the death penalty on drug trafficking. Our findings suggest that the introduction of the death 
penalty for the trafficking of cannabis and opium in 1990 likely had a deterrent effect on trafficking 
behaviour for these drug types.

Deterrent Effect of 
Historical Amendments 
to Singapore’s Sanction 
Regime for Drug 
Trafficking

Yee Fei Chia

Research & Statistics Division, Ministry of Home Affairs, Singapore

Background

One of the rationales for the use of capital 
punishment in Singapore has been that it deters 
potential offenders from engaging in serious 
crimes like drug trafficking and murder. This study 
assesses the deterrent effect of the introduction 
of the mandatory death penalty for trafficking 
cannabis and opium in 1990. 

Overview of Existing Empirical 
Research on the Deterrent Effect of 
Capital Punishment

The empirical research available on the deterrent 
effect of capital punishment appears to have 
focussed largely on quantifying the impact of the 
death penalty on homicide rates, with the implicit 
assumption that would-be perpetrators of homicide 

followed a rational choice model where they would 
weigh the expected benefits of committing homicide 
against the expected costs (i.e., perceived sanction 
risk) associated with the act. The vast majority 
of these studies have examined the relationship 
between the death penalty and homicide rates in 
the United States, where the application of the 
death penalty for homicide cases has usually been 
determined by individual US states, and actual 
implementation of death penalty regimes has varied 
substantially from state to state.

As these studies were conducted on jurisdictions 
where the death penalty was not mandatory under 
any circumstances and was, in practice, applied 
only to a minority of cases eligible for the death 
penalty, the authors of the various studies have 

56
Home Team Journal

tended to assume that execution events and rates, 
rather than the legality of the death penalty per 
se, were more salient considerations for potential 
perpetrators of homicide when assessing the 
potential cost of committing homicide.  As such, 
the studies have typically used measures based 
on executions to quantify the perceived sanction 
risks associated with the death penalty. However, 
as researchers held differing views on how would-
be perpetrators would interpret information on 
potential punishment to derive the expected cost 
of committing homicide and make decisions, the 
studies have used different specifications for the 
execution rate.  In terms of data, the studies have 
typically utilised either state-level panel data on 
executions and homicides to estimate the “average 
national effect” of the execution rate on the 
homicide rate for the United States, or time series 
data to look at the effect of execution events or 
effect of changes in the execution rate on homicide 
rates within a specific US state. 

The various studies have found a wide range 
of results, ranging from studies that did not find 
evidence of a deterrent effect to those that found a 
large deterrent effect.

a.	 Examples of Studies that did not Find 
Evidence of a Deterrent Effect

i)	 Grogger (1990) examined data on daily 
homicide counts in California from the early 
1960s to analyse whether the occurrence of 
executions had a short-term deterrent effect. 
The study did not find any evidence that 
executions deterred homicides in the two- to 
four-week period immediately surrounding 
the executions. 

ii)	 Katz, Levitt & Shustorovich (2003) utilised 
state-level panel data for the United 
States from 1950 to 1990 to examine the 
relationship between prison conditions, 
capital punishment, and crime rates. Using 
the number of executions per 1,000 state 
prisoners as the proxy for execution risk, the 
study found little evidence to suggest that the 
execution rate had an effect on crime rates. 

On the other hand, the death rate among 
prisoners (which served as a proxy for prison 
conditions) was negatively correlated with 
crime rates, suggesting that poor prison 
conditions deterred would-be perpetrators 
from committing crimes.

iii)	Kovandzic, Vieraitis & Boots (2010) utilised 
state-level panel data for the United States 
from 1977 to 2006 to examine the relationship 
between sanction risk and homicide rates. 
Using various different specifications for the 
execution rate to proxy for the sanction risk, 
the authors found that the coefficients for 
the execution rate were mostly negative but 
statistically insignificant.

iv)	Using state-level panel data from 1980 to 
2013, Roeder, Eisen & Bowling (2015) 
examined the factors that had contributed to 
the historical decline in violent crime rates 
in the United States. The authors concluded 
that while certain social, economic, and 
environmental factors, as well as one particular 
approach to policing, had contributed to the 
crime decline, the number of executions 
(proxy for the use of capital punishment) was 
not a statistically significant factor.

b.	 Examples of Studies that Found Evidence of 
a Moderate Deterrent Effect

i)	 Land, Teske & Zhang (2009) utilised monthly 
Texas execution–homicide data from the 
Texas Department of Criminal Justice and 
the Texas Department of Public Safety over 
the period 1994 to 2005 to study the short-
term effects of execution events on homicide 
in the state of Texas. The results suggested 
that execution events led to modest, short-
term reductions in homicides in Texas, with 
part of the initial reduction being offset by 
a displacement effect (i.e., homicides were 
displaced to a later date, rather than deterred 
completely). All in all, the authors estimated 
that the total effect was a reduction of around 
0.5 homicides per execution in the twelve 
months immediately following the execution.

57
Special Issue •  January 2020

ii)	 Mocan & Gittings (2003) and Mocan & 
Gittings (2010) estimated the effects of 
the execution rate, death row removal rate 
(proxy for decrease in the expected cost of 
committing homicide), and death sentence 
commutation rate (proxy for decrease in the 
expected cost of committing homicide) on the 
rate of homicides across all US states between 
1977 and 1997 using a state-level panel 
dataset on historical capital cases. The results 
suggested that during the period studied, on 
average, each additional execution led to 
around five fewer homicides, each additional 
death sentence commutation led to around 
five more homicides, and each additional 
removal from death row for reasons other 
than execution or death of inmate was 
associated with one additional homicide.

c.	 Examples of Studies that Found Evidence of 
a Large Deterrent Effect or that the Death 
Penalty Deterred Homicides Previously 
Believed to be “Undeterrable”

i)	 Dezhbakhsh, Rubin, & Shepherd (2003) 
analysed county-level panel data for the 
United States over the period of 1977 to 
1996 to examine the deterrent effect of the 
death penalty on homicides. The authors 
concluded that each execution led to, on 
average, eighteen fewer homicides.

ii)	 Zimmerman (2004) utilised a simultaneous 
equations modelling method to examine 
the deterrent effect of capital punishment 
on homicides for US states over the years 
1978 to 1997. The study found that each 
state execution event was associated with 
approximately fourteen fewer homicides per 
year on average. The study also found that 
the announcement of executions, rather than 
the existence of the death penalty itself, was 
the mechanism driving the deterrent effect.

iii)	Shepherd (2004) utilised monthly data on 

homicides and executions for US states over 
the period of 1977-1999 to examine whether 
capital punishment deterred homicides 
typically thought to be undeterrable. The 
study found that the death penalty deterred 
murders that were likely to be crimes of 
passion, as well as murders by intimates, 
contrary to popular expectations that such 
murders could not be deterred. In addition, 
the study found that shorter waits on death 
row before execution increased the deterrent 
effect. Specifically, on average, one fewer 
murder was committed for every 2.75-year 
reduction in death row waiting time.

While the differences in findings for these studies 
can be partially attributed to differences in time 
periods, jurisdictions examined and control 
variables in some instances, a key driver has 
been differences in the way that the measure for 
sanction risk perceived by would-be perpetrators 
of homicide has been specified. Re-analyses of 
existing studies (Donohue & Wolfers, 2005 & 
2009; Fagan, 2006) have suggested that the size and 
statistical significance of the estimated deterrent 
effect are sensitive to seemingly small changes in 
specification for the execution rate (e.g., changing 
denominator from the number of death sentences 
handed down five years ago to number of death 
sentences handed down seven years ago etc.). These 
differences in specification have arisen primarily 
because there is insufficient knowledge of how 
potential murderers would interpret information to 
derive the sanction risk associated with committing 
homicide and then make decisions. As such, there 
does not seem to be a way to resolve disagreements 
about how sanction risks for these studies should 
be measured. 

Besides the lack of consensus among researchers 
on how potential perpetrators of homicide 
quantified perceived sanction risks and made 
decisions, most of the empirical studies on the 
deterrent effect of capital punishment - regardless 
of the direction of the findings - have also generally 

58
Home Team Journal

been critiqued for failing to account sufficiently for 
other factors that could also have affected homicide 
rates, thus potentially resulting in biased results 
(for a comprehensive review of studies, refer to 
National Research Council, 2012). Such factors 
would include severity of non-capital sanctions 
for homicides, effectiveness and efficiency of 
law enforcement and judiciary, prison conditions, 
political landscape, population demographic profile, 
macroeconomic conditions, secular time trends and 
so forth (National Research Council, 2012).  

In addition, it may also be debatable whether the 
rational choice model can be easily applied to 
homicide as the act of killing might be fuelled 
by many other factors (e.g., impulsivity, anger, 
mental illness, substance abuse etc.) which 
generally would not contribute to rationality. 
As the rational choice model is arguably more 
applicable to crimes that generally involve a high 
degree of pre-planning, say, economic crimes such 
as drug trafficking, it may be instructive to study 
the deterrent effect of capital punishment in the 
context of such crimes. However, such studies are 
hard to find in the literature. This study seeks to 
help fill this knowledge gap and represents one of 
the first efforts in the empirical capital punishment 
literature to attempt to quantify the deterrent impact 
of the death penalty on drug trafficking.

Background on the Misuse of Drugs Act

Introduced in 1973, the Misuse of Drugs Act (MDA) 
is Singapore’s main legislation for drug offences. 
The MDA provides for the enforcement powers of 
the Central Narcotics Bureau (CNB), and also sets 
out the definitions and penalties for the spectrum of 
drug offences, including trafficking, manufacturing, 
possession and consumption of controlled drugs.

In the case of drug trafficking, amendments to 
the MDA at various points in time introduced the 
Mandatory Death Penalty (MDP) for trafficking 
above specified quantities for certain drug types 
(see Table 1). 

As the MDA amendments introducing the MDP 
were specifically targeted against cases where 
there were larger quantities of drugs being 
trafficked, findings suggesting that the introduction 
of MDP for a particular drug type (1) reduced the 
probability that traffickers would traffic above 
the specified threshold, and/or (2) reduced the 
weight that traffickers chose to traffic for that 
drug type, could be construed as evidence that 
the introduction of MDP had a deterrent effect on 
traffickers’ decisions.

Overview of Data Used for this Study

To study whether the introduction of MDP for 
specific drug types in the 1990s had a deterrent 
effect on drug trafficking behaviour for these drug 
types in Singapore, data from historical CNB case 
files for drug trafficking cases four years pre- and 
post- date of commencement of the MDP regime 
was utilised. Four-year windows were chosen for 
the analyses in this study after an inspection of 
the data as they were assessed to be more optimal 
in terms of providing sufficient data points for 
more robust analysis, while being short enough to 
minimise the possibility that the changes observed 
were more likely to be due to other factors, rather 

Table 1. Timeline of MDA Amendments Introducing  
the MDP

59
Special Issue •  January 2020

than the introduction of MDP. For the analyses, we 
included only data from cases where the suspect 
was charged in court (i.e., excluded cases where 
there was not enough evidence to charge the 
suspect) and the charges were not subsequently 
withdrawn.

The 
CNB 
case 
file 
data 
represented 
contemporaneous records of trafficking cases and 
contained information on both the details of the 
case and the characteristics of the perpetrator. In 
particular, the dataset contained information on:

a.	 Drug type trafficked;
b.	 Net and gross weights of drug trafficked;
c.	 Date of arrest;
d.	 Place of arrest; 
e.	 Trafficker’s age, gender, race, citizenship, 
employment status at time of arrest, prior drug 
offence history at time of arrest.

As the CNB case files covered only trafficking 
cases detected by the authorities, one limitation of 
this dataset would be that the cases in it might not 
be fully representative of the overall universe of 
trafficking cases. 

Overview of Methodology Used for this 
Study

In view that capital punishment for drug trafficking 
had been introduced in Singapore in the form of 
a mandatory sentence, we focussed on estimating 
the effects associated with the implementation of 
the legislative changes, rather than the effects of 
execution events or changes in the execution rate. 
Besides the mandatory nature of the death penalty 
during the time period examined in this study, it 
should also be noted that unlike jurisdictions in the 
United States, Singapore does not have a history of 
publicising executions. As such, it does not appear 
plausible that potential offenders in Singapore 
would make decisions based on execution events 
or fluctuations in the execution rates that would be 
hard for them to deduce from available information. 

On the other hand, the implementation of legislative 
changes is typically publicised through multiple 
mediums by the Singapore Government and 
hence, would more likely be information known to 
potential offenders.

In theory, the staggered timing of the MDA 
amendments introducing the death penalty for 
the various drug types could potentially serve as 
“natural experiments” that could be used to identify 
the deterrent impact of the introduction of MDP for 
a particular drug type. In particular, one potential 
approach would be to adopt a “difference-in-
differences” regression modelling approach. In this 
approach, trafficking cases for the drug type where 
there had been a change in capital punishment 
regime (“treatment group”) would be compared 
against a “control group” consisting of trafficking 
cases for another drug type where there had been 
no change in the capital punishment regime during 
the study period. The inclusion of the control group 
would help account for the effects of overarching 
trends in drug trafficking/enforcement activities 
(e.g., changes in scale of drug syndicate operations 
in the region during the period, changes in intensity 
and/or effectiveness of enforcement efforts) that 
could have also affected drug trafficking activities 
in Singapore during the study period.

The original intention of the study was to examine 
the impacts of all of the MDP amendments 
introduced in the 1990s via a “difference-in-
differences” regression modelling design, using 
heroin trafficking cases as the control group. 
However, it was feasible to utilise this approach only 
for cannabis trafficking due to the low incidence of 
cases for the other drug types for which the MDP 
was also introduced in 1990s. While we were still 
able to do some before-and-after comparisons 
for opium trafficking, we were forced to drop 
our plans to analyse trends in trafficking pre- and 
post- implementation of MDP for cannabis resin, 
cannabis mixture, cocaine, and methamphetamine 
as there were insufficient cases (i.e., lack of data 
points) for these drug types for robust analysis. 

60
Home Team Journal

Analysis for Cannabis Trafficking

The mandatory death penalty for trafficking 
involving more than 500g of cannabis went into 
effect on 15 January 1990.

A preliminary examination of the data for cannabis 
(see Table 2) suggested that the proportion of 
cannabis traffickers who trafficked above the 
capital threshold of 500g remained similar in the 
four years before (25%) and the four years after 
(24%) the introduction of MDP for cannabis. The 
average net weight trafficked was lower after 
the introduction of MDP, albeit not statistically 
significant so. However, it could be argued that 
such a comparison might be overly simplistic and 
might not fully reflect the deterrent effect of the 
introduction of MDP as there might have been 
confounders. These confounders, such as changes 
over time in the profile of traffickers, overarching 
time trends in drug trafficking/enforcement 
activities (e.g., changes in scale of drug syndicate 
operations in the region during the period, changes 
in intensity and/or effectiveness of enforcement 
efforts etc.) could have obfuscated the deterrent 
effect associated with the introduction of the MDP. 

Table 2. Summary Statistics for Cannabis Trafficking 
Cases Before and After Introduction of MDP for Cannabis

Note: Differences between the two time periods not statistically 
significant.

In view of the possible existence of confounding 
factors, we adopted a “difference-in-differences” 
regression modelling approach that compared 
trends in trafficking cases for cannabis (“treatment 
group”) four years pre- and post- introduction of 
the MDP for cannabis against trends in trafficking 
cases for heroin (“control group”) over the same 
time period. This approach would help us quantify 
the deterrent effect of the introduction of MDP 
on cannabis trafficking behaviour in a more 
sophisticated and rigorous manner.

To implement the “difference-in-differences” 
approach, we estimated the following regression 
model:

Yi=μ+γGi+δTi+τGi Ti+βXi+εi

Where 
a.	 Yi=1 if net weight of drug trafficked was 
above capital threshold, i.e., 500g for cannabis 
(treatment group) and 15g for heroin (control 
group); 0 otherwise;
b.	 Gi=1 if drug type trafficked was cannabis; 0 if 
drug type trafficked was heroin;
c.	 Ti=1 if date of arrest was on or after 15 January 
1990 (date of commencement of MDP for 
cannabis); 0 if date of arrest was before 15 
January 1990;
d.	 Xi= Trafficker’s characteristics such as age, 
gender, race, citizenship, employment status at 
time of arrest, prior drug offence history at time 
of arrest, as well as whether arrest took place at 
or near a border checkpoint.

61
Special Issue •  January 2020

In essence, the estimate for τ (i.e., the coefficient for 
the interaction term between Gi and Ti ) would give 
us the estimated deterrent effect for the introduction 
of MDP for cannabis. The binary variable Gi 
accounted for time-invariant differences between 
cannabis and heroin trafficking cases, Ti accounted 
for general trends in the drug trafficking landscape 
in the four years before and after 15 January 1990, 
while Xi helped to account for drug trafficker 
characteristics that might also have affected the 
traffickers’ decisions.

Table 3 summarises the findings from the 
“difference-in-differences” 
analyses, 
which 
suggested that the introduction of MDP for cannabis 
might have reduced the probability that cannabis 
traffickers would choose to traffic above the capital 
threshold for cannabis in the four years immediately 
following the change in the sanction regime by 
around 15 to 19 percentage points. These findings 
suggest that the presence of MDP might have been 
a salient consideration to traffickers and helped 
to deter them from trafficking large quantities of 
cannabis. Our analyses (results not shown in Table 
3) also suggested that traffickers who had prior 
convictions for drug offences were less likely 
to traffic cannabis in amounts above the capital 
threshold. This could imply that the traffickers 
who likely had better knowledge of the law and the 
drug trade in Singapore were more cognisant of the 
consequences of carrying large amounts of drugs 
and hence, adjusted their decisions accordingly.
 

Table 3. “Difference-in-Differences” Estimates for 
the Deterrent Effect for the Introduction of MDP for 
Cannabis (Based on 4-year Windows Pre- and Post- 
Introduction of MDP)

Note: ppt=percentage points; *significant at 10% level; 
**significant at 5% level; standard errors clustered by case identifier.

Besides the models described in Table 3, we also 
estimated alternative regression models using 
gross weights instead of net weights to define 
the dependent variable, as well as using other 
timeframes (e.g., five years pre- and post-, three 
years pre- and post-), to test the robustness of our 
findings. These alternative models yielded similar 
findings, suggesting that the findings were quite 
robust to changes in specifications. In addition, 
as per the standard practice for the methodology 
adopted, we also conducted placebo tests involving 
“artificial” treatment dates/groups – these tests 
suggested the parallel trends assumption needed 
for the “difference-in-differences” approach to be 
valid was likely not violated.

Analysis for Opium Trafficking

In response to concerns over large increases in 
opium production in the Golden Triangle in the 
late 1980s and fears that opium might become a 
cheaper alternative drug for heroin addicts, the 
Singapore Government decided to introduce the 
death penalty for opium trafficking (Jayakumar, 
1989). The mandatory death penalty for trafficking 
in more than 1,200g of opium went into effect on 
15 January 1990. 

The low incidence of opium trafficking in the years 
both before and after the introduction of MDP for 
opium meant that, unlike the case for cannabis, 
it was not technically feasible to adopt a more 
sophisticated statistical modelling approach that 
could also account for confounders, such as changes 
in the profile of the traffickers and overarching time 
trends in drug trafficking/enforcement activities, to 
produce more robust results.

An examination of the data for opium indicated 
that the proportion of opium traffickers who 
trafficked above the capital threshold of 1,200g 
remained similar in the four-year windows before 
and after the introduction of MDP for opium. While 
the proportions of traffickers trafficking above the 
threshold remained similar, we also observed that 
the introduction of MDP was associated with a 66% 

62
Home Team Journal

reduction (i.e., a decrease of 27,000g) in the average 
net weight of opium trafficked by traffickers, which 
is consistent with the notion that the introduction of 
MDP might have helped to reduce the quantity of 
opium that traffickers chose to traffic in Singapore 
during this period (see Table 4).

Table 4. Summary Statistics for Opium Trafficking 
Cases Before and After Introduction of MDP for Opium

Note: ** Difference is statistically significant at 5% level

Conclusion 

While previous studies on the deterrent effect 
of capital punishment have largely focused on 
quantifying the impact of the death penalty on 
homicide rates using aggregated data, this study 
has examined the deterrent impact of the death 
penalty on drug trafficking using individual case 
data and represents one of the first efforts in the 
empirical capital punishment literature to look at 
drug trafficking.

Our findings are consistent with the hypothesis 
that the introduction of MDP for the trafficking 
of cannabis and opium had a deterrent effect 
on trafficking behaviour for these drug types in 
Singapore. In particular, our analyses suggested 
that once potential confounders such as changes in 
the profile of cannabis traffickers and overarching 
time trends in trafficking/enforcement activities 
were accounted for, the introduction of MDP for 
cannabis in 1990 was associated with a substantial 
reduction in the probability that cannabis traffickers 
chose to traffic above the capital threshold for 

cannabis in the four years following the sanction 
regime change. This suggests that the introduction 
of MDP for cannabis might have been a salient 
consideration to traffickers and helped to deter them 
from trafficking large quantities of cannabis. We 
also found that the introduction of MDP for opium 
in 1990 was associated with a large reduction in 
the average net weight trafficked for opium, which 
again is consistent with the idea that introduction 
of MDP for opium in 1990 likely had a deterrent 
effect on trafficking behaviour. 

Hence, based on these findings, one could argue 
that the introduction of MDP for drug trafficking in 
Singapore likely affected drug traffickers’ decision 
making process and helped to deter them from 
trafficking larger quantities of drugs in Singapore.
 
Acknowledgements

The author would like to thank the Central 
Narcotics Bureau for providing the data used in 
this study. 

References

Dezhbakhsh, H., Rubin, P.H., & Shepherd, J.M. (2003). Does 
capital punishment have a deterrent effect? New evidence from 
postmoratorium panel data. American Law and Economics Review, 
5(2), 344-376.

Donohue, J.J., & Wolfers, J. (2005). Uses and Abuses of Empirical 
Evidence in the Death Penalty Debate. Stanford Law Review, 
58(3), 791–845.

Donohue, J.J., & Wolfers, J. (2009). Estimating the Impact of the 
Death Penalty on Murder. American Law and Economics Review, 
11(2), 249-309.

Fagan, J. (2006). Death and Deterrence Redux: Science, Law and 
Causal Reasoning on Capital Punishment. Ohio State Journal of 
Criminal Law, 4, 255–321.

Grogger, J. (1990). The deterrent effect of capital punishment: 
An analysis of daily homicide counts. Journal of the American 
Statistical Association, 85(410), 295-303.

Katz, L., Levitt, S.D., & Shustorovich, E. (2003). Prison 
conditions, capital punishment, and deterrence. American Law and 
Economics Review, 5(2), 318-343.

63
Special Issue •  January 2020

About the Author:

Dr Yee Fei Chia , an economist by training, is currently a Director in the Research & Statistics Division, Ministry of Home 
Affairs, Singapore. Her previous experience in the Singapore Public Service included stints in the Ministry of Trade & Industry, 
Ministry of Health, as well as the Central Provident Fund Board. Prior to joining the Singapore Public Service, Yee Fei was 
an Assistant Professor of Economics based in the United States. Yee Fei holds a PhD in Economics from the University of 
Toronto.

Kovandzic, T.V., Vieraitis, L.M., & Boots, D.P. (2010). Does the 
death penalty save lives? New evidence from state panel data, 
1977 to 2006. Criminology and Public Policy, 8(4), 803-843.

Land, K.C., Teske, R.H.C. Jr, & Zheng, H. (2009). The short-term 
effects of executions on homicides: Deterrence, displacement, or 
both? Criminology, 47(4), 1009-1043.

Mocan, H.N., & Gittings, R.K. (2003). Getting off death 
row: Commuted sentences and the deterrent effect of capital 
punishment. The Journal of Law and Economics, 46(2), 453-478.

Mocan, H.N., & Gittings, R.K. (2010). The impact of incentives 
on human behavior. Can we make it disappear? The case of the 
death penalty. In The Economics of Crime: Lessons for and from 
Latin America, Rafael Di Tella, Sebastian Edwards, and Ernesto 
Schargrodsky, Eds, 379-418. Chicago: University of Chicago 
Press.

National Research Council. (2012). Deterrence and the Death 
Penalty. Committee on Deterrence and the Death Penalty, Daniel 

S. Nagin and John V. Pepper, Eds. Committee on Law and Justice, 
Division of Behavioral and Social Sciences and Education. 
Washington, DC: The National Academies Press.

Roeder, O., Eisen, L-B., & Bowling, J. (2015). What caused the 
crime decline? New York: Brennan Center for Justice at New York 
University School of Law.

Shepherd, J. (2004). Murders of passion, execution delays, and the 
deterrence of capital punishment. The Journal of Legal Studies, 
33(2), 283-321.

Jayakumar, S. (1989). Singapore Parliamentary Debates, Official 
Report (30 November 1989), vol 54 at cols 862-892. Retrieved 
from http://sprs.parl.gov.sg/search/topic?reportid=007_19891130_
S0002_T0005.

Zimmerman, P.R. (2004). State executions, deterrence, and the 
incidence of murder. Journal of Applied Economics, 7(1), 163-193.

64
Home Team Journal

Abstract 

This study looks at the impact of deterrence measures such as risk certainty, severity and salience 
on the decision-making process of individuals who considered drug trafficking activities. A two-
phase study was conducted. In Phase 1, a mixed-method qualitative study was completed, where 
drug traffickers were interviewed to understand their decision-making process, and focus group 
discussions were held for offenders both with and without drug trafficking convictions. In Phase 
2, a quantitative study, measuring the key constructs from Phase 1, was carried out. Quantitative 
surveys were administered to both drug traffickers and other offenders who were sentenced to 
imprisonment from 2013 to 2018. The key findings showed that (1) one’s risk perception was 
related to sanction awareness and impulsivity, and (2) trafficking behaviour was influenced by 
aspects of risk perception such as risk certainty and individual factors (i.e., criminal thinking). 
The findings point to the importance of factors such as sanction awareness and risk certainty in 
one’s drug trafficking actions, while taking into account individual, contextual and situational 
factors. These factors influence both the absence of trafficking behaviour as well as the restriction 
of trafficking behaviour amongst drug traffickers.

The Impact of 
Deterrence on the 
Decision-Making Process 
of Drug Traffickers 

Jasmin Kaur1, Kah Shun Teo2 & Salina Samion2

Singapore Prison Service1 & Central Narcotics Bureau2

Introduction

The concept of deterrence has shaped criminal 
laws and policies over the years. However, the 
evidence that deterrence prevents or reduces 
crime is inconclusive, with both proponents and 
critics of the theory. Drug trafficking, which 
refers to the selling and transferring of drugs, is a 
criminal behaviour that is usually associated with 
tough punishments. In certain jurisdictions, like 
Singapore, the deterrence element is also applied 
in the form of its tough laws that include the death 
penalty. Hence, it is crucial to study the impact of 
deterrence on the decision to traffic drugs. Having a 
comprehensive understanding of the psychological 
make-up and decision-making process undertaken 

by drug traffickers can then inform prevention and 
supply reduction efforts. 

Studies of decision-making in criminal behaviour 
entail the investigation of how offenders perceive 
the consequences or risks of various lines of 
action, and of how these perceptions shape 
their choices about participation in the criminal 
behaviour in question. A brief review of the 
literature on deterrence theory as well as the 
individual, situational, and contextual factors that 
could influence decision-making was undertaken, 
relating this to the possible understanding of drug-
traffickers’ decision-making process. 

65
Special Issue •  January 2020

Subjective Risk Perception and Deterrence

Decisions about the involvement in criminal 
behaviour include forming expectations about the 
future, among other things. These expectations 
concern potential risks (costs, disincentives), as 
well as potential rewards (benefits, incentives). 
However, individuals differ in their ability and 
willingness to balance the various risks and 
rewards related to criminal actions (Jacobs, 
2010). As such, the conditions under which many 
offenders commit their crimes appear to alter their 
subjective probabilities of the future and reward-
punishment ratios. 

An individual’s perception of risks associated with 
committing criminal behaviour play an important 
role in the decision-making process to engage in 
crime. These risks include detection by authorities 
(degree of certainty), the unpleasantness of the 
resultant punishment (severity), the importance of 
the consequences (salience) and the swiftness of 
punishment (celerity). Specifically, perceived risk 
certainty refers to the individual’s estimate of the 
likelihood of being detected, arrested, convicted, 
and incarcerated upon committing an offence, 
while perceived risk severity refers to the severity 
of consequences (e.g., length of sentence) and 
perceived risk salience refers to the importance 
of the risk to their decision (Apel, 2013; Bouffard 
2015; Gutnik et. al., 2005). 

The premise of deterrence, following the rational 
choice theory, is that if penalty is certain, severe, 
and swift, a rational person will undertake a cost-
benefit analysis before engaging in crime. Having 
done so, the individual would be deterred from 
violating the law if the loss is greater than the gain 
(Ward, Stafford & Gary, 2006). Decker, Wright, 
and Logie (1993) observed that there is no direct 
relationship between sanctions and criminal action 
as these two variables must be linked through the 

intervening variable of subjective perceptions of 
the risks and perceived rewards of committing the 
offence in a group of burglars. 

“Restrictive deterrence” is the process whereby 
offenders continue to offend but limit the frequency, 
magnitude or seriousness of their offences to avoid 
punishment (Gibbs, 1975 as cited in Moeller, 
Copes & Hochstetler, 2016). This would include 
manipulating the severity of the consequences that 
may follow their crimes by committing crimes of 
less seriousness (Jacobs, 2010). An understanding 
of the decision-making process of individuals 
who limit their drug trafficking activities through 
restrictive deterrence would also buttress the value 
of deterrence and legal consequences that assist to 
minimise this criminal behaviour. 

In summary, literature suggests that subjective 
risk perceptions inform a large part of the criminal 
decision making process. As such, therein lies a 
possibility that risk perceptions can be carefully 
managed by criminal justice authorities through 
a combination of legislation and more publicised 
enforcement (e.g., more visible police presence, 
stricter charging and sentencing practices) to deter 
potential criminal behaviour. While this may not 
result in complete prevention of crime, it could 
lead to crimes of lower frequency and magnitude. 

Current research on deterrence shows that the 
association between subjective risk perceptions 
and criminal behaviour is impacted by other 
influencing factors. The lack of understanding of 
these influencing factors (such as self-control) leads 
to a misjudgement of the importance of the risk 
perception-crime link (Paternoster, 2010; Pratt et. 
al., 2006). Thus, other influencing factors should be 
taken into consideration when studying the impact 
of deterrence on decision-making of criminals.

66
Home Team Journal

Individual Factors Influencing Decisions for 
Drug Trafficking  

Personality

Individual personality characteristics are found 
to be relevant factors that influence the decision-
making of offending behaviours such as drug 
trafficking. Specifically, thrill-seeking traits and 
low self-control were related to drug trafficking 
activities (Little & Steinberg, 2006; Morselli & 
Tremblay, 2004). A study by Burt and Simons 
(2013) found that individuals who present with 
thrill seeking traits and impaired self-control 
had a higher likelihood of criminal offending. 
Additionally, the study by Little & Steinberg 
(2006) found that adolescents’ impulse control 
restrained their frequency of marijuana selling, 
and adolescents’ resistance to peer influence are 
less likely to be involved in marijuana selling. 
Similarly, Shammas, Sandbery and Pedersen 
(2013) highlighted that several drug traffickers 
spoke of thrills when managing or handling large 
operations, as well as the sensual attraction of doing 
higher-level sales of drugs. 

Morselli & Tremblay (2004) examined the impact 
of low self-control and personal organisation 
features on the criminal earnings of a sample of 
offenders who were previously involved in market 
crimes such as drug trafficking. The findings 
underlined the benefits of low self-control in 
organised crime markets that enable the offender 
to thrive in such competitive settings. Specifically, 
the authors highlighted that the behavioural 
mechanisms characteristic of low self-control 
(impulsive, simple-task oriented, risk seeking, 
physicality, self-centred, and short-tempered) 
can all be interpreted as significant assets (quick 
thinking, uncomplicated, risk seeking, action-
oriented, individualistic, and unforgiving-ruthless) 
in the involvement of competitive market crimes. 

Criminal Thinking Patterns

Individuals are able to engage in criminal activities 
by using techniques of neutralisation to negate 
the criminality of their actions. Some examples of 
neutralisation techniques are denial of responsibility, 
denial of injury, denial of the victim, condemnation of 
the condemners, appeal to higher loyalties, everyone 
else is doing it, and claim to entitlement (Gottschalk 
& Smith, 2011; Heath, 2008; Sykes & Matza, 1957). 
Table 1 highlights the various types of neutralisation 
techniques employed by a group of middle-class 
drug traffickers in a study by Curcione (1997).

Frese & Gielnik (2014) highlighted the cognitive bias 
of overconfidence/over-optimism in criminal acts. 
Overconfidence refers to the individuals’ tendency to 
overestimate their skills and abilities, in particular with 
regard to making accurate forecasts, having higher 
abilities relative to others, and becoming successful 
(Koellinger et. al. 2007). According to Simon and 
Shrader (2012), it is possible that overconfidence/
over-optimism increases criminal entrepreneurs’ 
impetus to initiate action and to persevere even in 
the presence of high failure rates and low expected 
returns. The presence of this criminal thinking 
can potentially shed some understanding to why 
criminals may persist in the offending behaviour, and 
are not deterred by severe penalties. The perception 
of low likelihood of being caught may also possibly 
contribute to their confidence that the offending is 
viable despite the risks. 

Table 1. Description of Neutralisation Techniques 

67
Special Issue •  January 2020

Situational and Contextual Factors Influencing 
Drug Trafficking

A review of sanctions and perceptions of criminal 
behaviours by Apel (2013:88) suggested that there 
are “situational factors” that will “result in an 
offender’s contemplation” of committing a criminal 
offence. Apel defines ‘activation of intent’ as “the 
more immediate needs and desires which impel 
offenders from a state of indifference to a state of 
criminal motivation”. These factors also influence 
the way in which risk perceptions are utilised. 
For example, Apel expounded that a re-occurring 
“theme emerging from offender interviews, is the 
individuals’ common experience of a situational 
event that results in an intense, pressing need for 
money, which borders on desperation” (Apel, 
2013:88). 

In relation to drug trafficking, several researchers 
who have sought to understand the motivations 
of drug traffickers in the face of severe negative 
consequences, routinely point to several contextual 
factors such as the experience of economic 
deprivation, 
poor 
educational 
opportunities, 
and lack of attachment to the workforce (Macit, 
2017; Shammas, Sandberg & Pedersen, 2014; 
VanNostrand & Tewksbury, 1999). Researchers 
have consistently determined that that individuals’ 
initiation to drug trafficking resulted primarily 
from financial need, and the perceptions of 
obstructed opportunities for substantial and 
gainful employment. These individuals saw drug 
trafficking as the fastest and only means of gaining 
financial survival and stability during these times 
of desperation (VanNostrand & Tewksbury, 1999).
 
Past research has also demonstrated that most 
drug traffickers were motivated by the recognition 
and respect achieved from trafficking drugs 
(Mohamed & Fritsvold, 2007; VanNostrand & 
Tewksbury, 1999). The sense of power associated 
with trafficking gave traffickers the freedom to 
pursue a measure of social status that other career 

choices would not have provided. Coupled with 
the recognition and respect earned, drug traffickers 
often report that the extravagant lifestyles that 
come with the easy money earned from trafficking 
was what motivated them to enter and maintain 
their drug trafficking activities (Shammas et. al., 
2014). Hence, “crime often provides the most 
efficient means available to resolve an offender’s 
present financial crisis” (Apel, 2013:88; see also: 
Mohamed & Fritsvold, 2007; VanNostrand & 
Tewksbury, 1999).

In summary, it is necessary to understand both (1) 
the impact of subjective risk perception/deterrence, 
as well as (2) other variables that would influence 
one’s decision making to traffic drugs. The current 
study thus examined offenders’ risk perception in 
terms of certainty, severity, salience and celerity in 
their decision to commit drug trafficking offences 
vis-a-vis their individual psychological, situational 
and contextual factors. Given that this was the 
first time that decision-making of drug traffickers 
was studied extensively, an exploratory qualitative 
approach preceded the quantitative study of the 
relationship between risk perception, individual 
factors, contextual factors and situational factors. 

Methodology

This study had two phases. First, in Phase 1, an 
exploratory multi-method qualitative study was 
conducted to identify the decision-making process 
of individuals convicted of drug trafficking in 
Singapore. The first part of Phase 1 included semi-
structured face-to-face interviews with 22 drug 
traffickers who were convicted within the past 2 
years. The second part of Phase 1 comprised four 
sessions of face-to-face focus group discussions 
(FGDs) with a total of 28 offenders of varying 
offending backgrounds. 

Guided by past literature, the semi-structured 
interviews aimed to understand the decision 
making process of drug traffickers at different 

68
Home Team Journal

time points of their drug trafficking experience. 
The three main drug trafficking experiences of 
interest to the researchers were: (1) the participants’ 
first trafficking experience; (2) the participants’ 
subsequent decision to traffic drugs (or not traffic 
drugs); and (3) the decision-making process during 
the participants’ current offence that led to arrest. 
The current study looked primarily at the decision-
making process related to the current offence. 

In order to minimise recall bias during the 
interview, the interview protocol was modelled 
after the procedures of critical decision method 
(CDM) (Klein, Calderwood & MacGregor, 1989; 
Fisher and Geiselman, 1992). For example, while 
obtaining the participants’ unstructured accounts of 
their trafficking experience, timelines and common 
decision points (e.g., planning of trafficking) were 
identified to guide during the interview. Questions 
were also crafted using various methods of critical 
decision interview probes, like using environmental 
cues. Each interview was conducted with one 
participant at a time, by an interviewer and a scribe. 
The interviews lasted between one to two hours. 
The interviews were transcribed ad verbatim by two 
coders per transcription and the team gathered for 
a discussion to ensure inter-coder reliability. The 
research team then undertook a content approach 
to analyse the findings and generated initial themes.

Once the initial themes were identified, focus group 
discussions were held with 28 offenders (convicted of 
various offences such as drug trafficking, smuggling 
of other contraband items, drug consumption /
possession) to confirm and refine some of the themes. 
These focus groups were conducted in groups of 6 
to 8 participants per group. Efforts were made to 
minimise the methodological issues of confidentiality 
and to ensure that participants were comfortable to 
provide their own perspectives through the use of 
a deliberate protocol. This led to the generation of 
initial hypotheses and confirmation of the quantitative 
survey to capture the main areas of influence in the 
decision-making process to traffic drugs. 

Subsequently, in Phase 2, a quantitative survey1 
was administered to 297 male Singaporeans who 
were admitted into Singapore Prison Service 
(SPS) from 2013 onwards. 163 of the participants 
had been convicted of drug trafficking offences, 
while the other 134 participants were in SPS for 
other offences such as smuggling, theft and drug 
consumption. The survey examined the subjective 
risk perception of the offenders (i.e., severity, 
certainty, salience and celerity of sanctions) at 
the time of committing their previous offence, 
personality factors (i.e., impulsivity, thrill-seeking) 
and criminal thinking (i.e., justification, criminal 
rationalisation), as well as contextual and situational 
factors related to drug trafficking. The quantitative 
study aimed to understand the impact of subjective 
risk perception to the decision-making process 
undertaken to traffic drugs. 

Informed consent was sought from all participants 
to participate in the study and surveys were available 
in different languages for easy understanding of the 
participants. The surveys were collected in groups 
of 30 offenders and members of the research team 
were present to answer any questions or clarify 
misunderstandings from the survey questions. 
Confidentiality of responses was maintained 
throughout the data collection process. 

Results

Key Findings from Phase 1: Qualitative Study

The qualitative study identified the following 
key factors that influenced the drug traffickers’ 
involvement in drug trafficking activities. This 
included (1) individual factors such as thrill-
seeking/impulsivity and criminal thinking patterns; 
(2) contextual factors such as a deviant social 
network and exposure to a client base of drug 
abusers; and (3) situational factors such as financial 
strain, desire for money and the need to sustain 
their own drug behaviour.

69
Special Issue •  January 2020

Individual Factors

Participants shared that they felt the thrill and 
satisfaction from the trafficking activities and 
continued their offending behaviour despite the 
consequences by engaging in cut off thinking.

C10:	“Sometimes, you got contacts. Then, when 
you are packing the packs, you feel the thrill. 
It’s like your profession. I feel like thrill la.”
T2:	 “Don’t know, maybe…own satisfaction, 
something that I want to do, something that I 
want to do for myself.” 
T6:	 “No I will be ok la, before I think too far too 
far. I might get scared right? So, I don’t care 
la just just do first la.”
F5:	 “Part of our gang activity, earning quite 
good money…. Never think about it 
[consequences], it’s just like a business. You 
have chosen this life, you know what is the 
consequences and you just do it.”

Participants shared that the company that they 
maintained was mainly deviant and had access to a 
client base to supply drugs.

Contextual Factors

T2:	 “Company that I mix with la. maybe ah…
in my leisure time la…party this and that. 
Things like that, people that you hang around 
with…the gangsters, the nightlife.”
C12:	“Start to feel like not going home, start to get 
to know bad company that teach me how to 
play drugs.”
C6: 	 “Part of my gang ah. I took it from ah… from 
the senior one.”
C12:	“It’s like I consume drugs, you consume 
drugs, then maybe your supplier kena caught 
so you just ask from me automatically 
because you know I also consume.”
T6: 	 “I mix with the people who consume drugs, who 
get into these kinds of thing la. So easier for me 
and easier for them also at that point of time.”

Participants shared that the ability to make money 
easily was an attractive feature of trafficking drugs. 

They did this for several reasons, to clear debts, pay 
for their daily necessities and drug use as well as to 
live a luxurious life.

Situational Factors

T5: 	 “All the bills….because of the bills, and my wife 
keep on pestering me, and I made a decision to 
make a loan, from a loanshark ah. Yah. To clear 
the debts ah, which really stupid la.”
C4: 	 “Never think too much lah, I just think ah, ok 
lah… grab the offer lah since I got no job ah. 
I take this thing can help me to survive for 
certain period.”
T4: 	 “I go enjoy la…I… ah, go drink la. Everyday 
drink… I think I always go coffee shop, I 
drink my Carlsberg, got 10 cans… Somemore 
night club drink Chivas….I spend 1000 la 
a day….I always gamble what, today win 
tomorrow lose, today win tomorrow lose, like 
that only.”
T2: 	 “To spend money la. Like I said, greed 
la…you have all these luxuries, you don’t 
have to work so damn hard under people’s 
supervision, under people’s shout and call 
like that…you can buy what you want, eat 
what you want, spend what you want…”
C3: 	 “We all smoke then we must take many what. 
Some smoke, some sell la. The money come 
ah, we rolling back.”

Decision-Making Process of Drug Traffickers

Drug traffickers demonstrated the use of rational 
thinking in making their decision to traffic drugs in 
the current offence. The analysis demonstrated the 
presence of two groups of drug traffickers, those 
with awareness of the legal consequences and those 
who showed a limited understanding of the legal 
consequences. For those who displayed sanction 
awareness, they mitigated their risk perceptions 
by engaging in a neutralising process through 
applying criminal thinking (i.e., having a false 
sense of confidence, minimising the consequences 
to themselves) as well as engaging in extensive 
planning in their operations to restrict their 
likelihood of being caught. These traffickers also 

70
Home Team Journal

limited the amount they trafficked to minimise the 
potential punishment. The group that had limited 
awareness of the legal consequences generally 
engaged in minimal planning or trafficked based on 
the orders given to them. 

C6:	 “I never once think about getting caught… 
cause I do, I really do it safely ah.”
F3:	 “When the money keeps coming in, then you 
see money at present time, fear go away.” 
T6: “I see a lot of people on the inside already 
and they are in for drug trafficking so, I was 
thinking ok if I get caught la is five years.”
F9:	 “Severe la. Just tell ourselves that we might 
be lucky, we won’t get caught.” 
F5:	 “The risk is known…I don’t deal with people 
heavy on drugs, I deal with those who are 
able to take care of themselves, it’s a small 
circle.”
F1:	 “Boss say to deliver to who, what time all 
that, just go. Along the way that you think of 
ways, like that is better…But packaging wise 
is done by the boss, as his way of making sure 
I won’t get caught. It’s because of the value of 
the things but not up to me to do.”

Decision-Making Process of Non-drug Traffickers

With awareness of legal consequences, non-
traffickers stated that the legal consequences were 
the primary reason that prevented them from 
engaging in drug trafficking despite the financial 
gains that were possible. 

F28:	“But I am scared. That’s why didn’t sell. 
Later kena (get) sentence 5 years and rotan 
(caned).”
F20:	“Never thought, scared. Scared of the high 
sentence. 1st time 5 years 5 strokes, it is scary 
enough.”
F18:	“For me, drug trafficking is a higher sentence 
than consumption, it’s a risk.”
F19:	“That’s why our percentage of getting caught 
is higher than getting away.”
F21:	 “Very likely. Because I think it is easy to get 
caught, too easy.”

Other reasons included the impact drug trafficking 
would have on their family relationships and the 
immorality of drug trafficking.

F18:	“My mindset was, I only take drugs, I never 
think of trafficking. When I take drugs, I 
still thinking about my family, my mum and  
all that.”
F27: “I didn’t do because it is wrong.” 
F23: “To me, you can take, but don’t sell. Don’t 
harm other people.”
F25: “Cigarettes don’t harm people. Selling drugs 
harm people.”

Figure 1 illustrates the various factors that 
determined the decision-making of offenders to 
traffic drugs. It was evident that drug traffickers 
and non-traffickers engaged in a deliberate choice 
when they made the decision to traffic drugs.

Figure 1. Decision-making Process to Traffic Drugs

71
Special Issue •  January 2020

Key Findings from Phase 2: Quantitative Study

Table 2 outlines some key characteristics of the 
offenders who engaged in trafficking behaviour 
and those who did not. The trafficker group was 
further split into a group of restricted traffickers 
who stated that they limited the amount of drugs 
that they had trafficked and a group of unrestricted 
traffickers who did not limit the amount of drugs 
they trafficked. Differences in age, education level 
and drug consumption within the year prior to their 
incarceration was evident between non-trafficking 
offenders and restricted traffickers. Additionally, 
there were also individual differences in power 
orientation, criminal rationalisation and trust of 
others amongst these two groups. Both trafficker 
groups had longer sentences and had higher levels of 
impulsivity as compared to the non-trafficker group. 

Table 3 provides the descriptives of sanction 
awareness and various aspects of subjective risk 
perception for the groups of restricted traffickers, 
unrestricted traffickers and non-traffickers. The 
restricted trafficker group had higher levels of 
sanction awareness compared to the unrestricted 
trafficker group. Additionally, the unrestricted 
trafficker group endorsed lower levels of risk 
certainty as compared to the non-trafficker group.  

Relationship between Sanction Awareness and 
Risk Perception

A regression analysis was conducted to determine 
the relationship between sanction awareness and 
overall risk perception, controlling for impulsivity. 
All variables have been centred to reduce multi-
collinearity.  

Table 2. Key Characteristics of Traffickers vs. Non-traffickers

72
Home Team Journal

For non-traffickers, sanction awareness, impulsivity 
and their interaction explained 25.0% of the 
variance (Adj. R2 = .250, F = (3, 122) = 14.877, p < 
.001). No main effect impulsivity (β = -.143, t(122) 
= -1.781, p > 0.05) on risk perception was observed 
or interaction between sanction awareness and 
impulsivity on risk perception were not observed (β 
= -.253, t(122) = -.374, p > 0.05). However, a main 
effect sanction awareness on risk perception was 
observed (β = .457, t(122) = 5.603, p < .000), where 
higher awareness predicts higher risk perception. 

For traffickers, risk awareness, impulsivity and 
their interaction explained 14.3% of the variance 
(Adj. R2 = .143, F = (3, 155) = 9.755, p < .001). As 
shown in Table 4, the results indicated significant 
main effect of sanction awareness (β = .463, t(155) = 
5.175, p < .001), where higher awareness predicted 
higher risk perception. Significant interaction effect 
of impulsivity and risk awareness (β = -.208, t(155) 
= -2.317, p < .05) on risk perception was found 
among the traffickers. No main effect was observed 
for impulsivity on risk perception (β = -.091, t(155) 
= -1.227, p > .05). 
 

Table 3. Sanction Awareness and Risk Perception of Offenders

Table 4. Regression Results of Risk Awareness and Impulsivity on Risk Perception 
among Non-traffickers (N= 126) and Traffickers (N=159)

73
Special Issue •  January 2020

In order to explore the interaction between sanction 
awareness and impulsivity on risk perception 
among traffickers, a simple slope analysis was 
conducted (see Figure 2). Impulsivity was split into 
high impulsivity (+1 SD) and low impulsivity (-1 
SD). At both high and low impulsivity, sanction 
awareness predicted risk perception, where high 
awareness led to higher risk perception (High: β = 
.352, t(85) = 3.489, p < .01; Low: β = .388, t(68) = 
3.502, p < .01). It should, however, be noted that 
B is higher at low impulsivity compared to high 
impulsivity, thus, suggesting that low impulsivity 
positively amplified the relationship between risk 
awareness and risk perception (see Table 5). 

Multinomial Logistic Regression

A multinomial logistic regression was conducted 
to 
analyse 
predictor 
variables, 
including 
demographics, individual predisposition, sanction 
awareness and risk perception, that predict various 
trafficking 
behaviour 
(restricted 
trafficking, 
unrestricted 
trafficking 
and 
non-trafficking). 
Non-traffickers was the reference group in this 
analysis, where variables predicting restricted and 
unrestricted trafficking behaviours were compared. 
To take into consideration the composite effect of 
the different set predictor variables on trafficking 
behaviour, they were added into the model via 

Figure 2. Two-Way Interaction between Impulsivity and Risk Awareness on Risk Perception

Table 5. Regression Results of Sanction Awareness on Risk Perception amongst Traffickers 
at High Impulsivity (N = 87) and at Low Impulsivity (N = 70)

74
Home Team Journal

enter method in this order: (1) demographics; (2) 
individual predisposition and; (3) risk awareness 
and perception. The final model is shown in Table 
6. It explained 28.2% of the variance in trafficking 
behaviour and the model fit is statistically 
significant (χ2(40) = 79.928, p < .001). 

For individual predisposition, higher rationalisation 
(Exp (β) = 1.062, p < .05) and lower denial of 
responsibility (Exp (β) = .881, p < .001) significantly 
predicted restricted trafficking compared to non-
trafficking. Comparing restricted trafficking and non-
trafficking behaviour, higher criminal rationalisation 
was 1.06 times more likely to be seen in a restricted 
trafficker compared to a non-trafficker. For sanction 
awareness and risk perception, sanction awareness 
was 1.13 times (Exp (β) = 1.130, p < 0.05) more 
likely to predict restricted trafficking compared to 
non-trafficking while risk certainty was 1.14 times 

Table 6. Parameter Estimates Contrasting Non-traffickers (N = 126) versus 
Restricted Traffickers (N = 94) and Unrestricted Traffickers (N = 61)

more likely to predict non-trafficking compared to 
restricted trafficking (Exp (β) = .881, p < 0.05). Other 
variables remain non-significant in the model. 

On the other hand, younger participants were 
more likely to engage in unrestricted trafficking 
compared to non-trafficking (Exp (β) = .944, p < .01). 
Additionally, unemployed participants were 2.65 
times more likely to engage in unrestricted trafficking 
compared to non-trafficking. Similar to the previous 
model, lower denial of responsibility (Exp (β) = 
.890, p < .05) and risk certainty (Exp (β) = .773, p 
< .05) predicted unrestricted trafficking compared 
to non-trafficking. It is also worthwhile to mention 
that impulsivity, in the final model, is approaching 
significance, where higher impulsivity predicted 
unrestricted trafficking compared to non-trafficking 
(Exp (β) = 1.040, p = .056). No other significant 
predictor variables are observed in the model. 

75
Special Issue •  January 2020

Discussion and Implications

This study represents the first effort to understand 
the process in which individuals in Singapore 
make the decision to traffic drugs, taking into 
consideration individual, contextual and situational 
factors. The findings point to several key insights 
below. 

Awareness of Sanctions Predicts Risk Perception 
of Drug Traffickers

This study demonstrated the importance of 
awareness of sanctions in predicting a drug 
trafficker’s subjective risk perception. Deterrence 
can only be of utility if there is an accurate 
understanding of the sanctions involved in the 
criminal behaviour. Through both the qualitative 
and quantitative studies, it was found that awareness 
of sanctions was a key precipitating factor that 
was related to drug traffickers’ subjective risk 
perceptions. The higher one’s sanction awareness, 
the higher was the trafficker’s subjective risk 
perception. Chalfin & McCrary (2017) described 
the importance of explicit information on the 
awareness of the sanctions that correspond to 
criminal activities such as drug trafficking. The need 
to advertise to the right audience for deterrence to 
have an impact is an important policy consideration 
that would increase the likelihood of subjective risk 
perception to be accurately informed and thus have 
the potential to impact criminal behaviour.

Of note is the interplay between sanction awareness 
and impulsivity in the subjective risk perception 
of drug traffickers. This shows that the impact of 
sanction awareness on a drug trafficker’s subjective 
risk perception is amplified at lower impulsivity. 
This suggests the need to address impulsivity, 
especially among traffickers, in policy messaging 
or rehabilitation in order to improve effectiveness 
of sanction messages. Criminology research has 
also repeatedly espoused that the construct of 

impulsivity is essential in understanding criminal 
behaviour and the findings in this study lend 
evidence to the importance of this construct in the 
interplay of sanction awareness and risk perception.

Importance of Individual, Situational and 
Contextual Factors in Drug Trafficking 
Behaviour

Individual factors, such as impulsivity and 
criminal thinking, play an essential part in the 
decision-making of offenders to traffic drugs. 
Individual differences in impulsivity differentiated 
the traffickers from the non-traffickers, with the 
traffickers reporting higher levels of impulsivity. 
Extant research on impulsivity clearly articulates 
its link to criminality and this is borne out in this 
study, with drug traffickers endorsing higher 
levels of impulsivity than non-traffickers, who 
were mainly drug abusers. This is noteworthy, 
given that previous research on drug abusers had 
found impulsivity to be associated with riskier 
drug use behaviours including polydrug use 
and needle sharing (Loxton et. al., 2008; Odum, 
Madden, Badger, & Bickel, 2000). Additionally 
higher criminal rationalisation predicted restricted 
trafficking compared to non-trafficking behaviour. 
The presence of criminal thinking to neutralise 
one’s risk perception was also found in the 
qualitative study as traffickers described their use 
of criminal rationalisation to overcome the risk 
perceptions present regarding drug trafficking.

Situational factors such as the importance of 
financial difficulties, personal drug use have been 
purported as factors that result in an offender 
resorting to drug trafficking behaviour. The current 
study showed that these situational factors were 
present in Singaporean drug traffickers. Contextual 
factors that featured as important included access to 
a client base and presence of negative influence from 

76
Home Team Journal

peers and family members. Through the qualitative 
and quantitative study, it was evident that financial 
gains were an important driver for both restricted 
and unrestricted traffickers. They engaged in 
criminal rationalisations and justifications in order 
to neutralise the risk of trafficking drugs and enjoy 
the financial gains. This was consistent with extant 
literature where drug traffickers were attracted by 
the luxurious lifestyle and purportedly easy money 
attained through drug trafficking (Shammas et. al., 
2014). This addiction to the lifestyle itself served 
as a strong motivator to traffic drugs, as fears of 
losing monetary and personal gains maintained 
one’s trafficking behaviours. 

These have several implications in terms of 
prevention of trafficking behaviour amongst 
offenders. First, messaging or interventions on 
criminal rationalisation can be targeted at at-risk 
individuals or restricted traffickers in order to 
facilitate deterrence or desistance respectively. 
Second, situational and contextual factors can 
be addressed for high-risk individuals through 
providing financial assistance and avenues that 
encourage positive pro-social support. Additionally, 
links to opportunities to develop skills that would 
encourage productive employment opportunities 
can be encouraged amongst these offenders.

Importance of Risk Certainty in Decision-
Making to Traffic Drugs

The deterrence literature has found that risk 
certainty is one of the key predictors of criminal 
behaviour, that is, if an individual is more likely 
to have high levels of certainty of being caught 
and punished for a criminal offence, they are less 
likely to commit the act. Research in deterrence 
indicated that the certainty of being caught is a 
more powerful and effective deterrent than the 
punishment itself (Nagin, 2013; Wright, 2010). 

This finding was replicated in the current study. 
We found that offenders who trafficked drugs had 
lower levels of risk certainty than offenders who 
did not traffic drugs in both phases of the study. 
From the qualitative study, individuals who had 
been caught for drug consumption articulated 
risk certainty as one of the main reasons not to 
traffic drugs. This was further corroborated in 
the quantitative study, where both restricted and 
unrestricted traffickers endorsed lower levels of 
risk certainty than non-trafficking offenders. This 
lends evidence to the importance of a deterrence 
construct of risk certainty in deterring offenders 
from trafficking drugs. Efforts to deter people from 
trafficking can explore ways to increase perception 
of risk certainty. 

None of the other risk perceptions (i.e., risk 
severity, risk salience and celerity) were significant 
in the current study. This may suggest that risk 
certainty plays a central role in deterring one 
from drug trafficking behaviour. Similarly, Pratt 
et. al. (2008) found that perceived risk certainty 
was a much stronger deterrent than perceived risk 
severity. Further research could unpack the aspects 
of risk certainty that differentiated trafficking 
behaviour, as well as, examine the impact of risk 
severity, salience and celerity in instances of high 
risk certainty. Past research had shown that the 
severity of punishment had a deterrent effect only 
if the certainty of punishment was high enough 
to make the severity of the punishment salient 
(Wright, 2010). 

There are some limitations to the current study. 
First, offenders were asked to engage in recalling 
of their state of mind prior to their recent offending 
behaviour. While efforts were made to minimise 
recall bias through the use of the CDM (Klein, 
Calderwood & MacGregor, 1989), and by limiting 
participants to those who were recently convicted 

77
Special Issue •  January 2020

for such offences, there are limitations to this 
procedure. It would be beneficial to conduct a 
prospective longitudinal study to examine the 
impact of incarceration and offenders’ current 
subjective risk perception on offenders’ likelihood 
of drug trafficking in the future. This would 
further buttress the understanding of the impact 
of deterrence on offenders’ decision-making to 
engage in future trafficking behaviour. 

Conclusion

Drug trafficking as a criminal behaviour has 
been studied extensively, given that it invariably 
plays a role in drug supply debates. One of the 
key questions is the impact of deterrence on 
the decision-making of offenders to engage in 
drug trafficking behaviours. The current study, 
looking at a sample of Singaporean offenders, has 
demonstrated the interplay between, individual, 
situational, contextual factors with sanction 
awareness and risk perception, specifically risk 
certainty in deterring non-trafficking offenders 
from engaging in trafficking behaviour. Also, 
there is strong evidence that many drug traffickers 
in Singapore restrict their trafficking activities to 
minimise the potential consequences of their drug 
trafficking activities, thereby lending support to the 
presence of restrictive deterrence. 

Acknowledgements

Research Team

This paper draws from a larger study conducted by a 
research team comprising of Home Team Psychologists 

from Central Narcotics Bureau (Teo Kah Shun, Salina 
Samion, Seah Wang Ling), Home Team Behavioural 
Science Centre (Jeffery Chin, Vivian Seah), and Singapore 
Prison Service (Natasha Lim, Jasmin Kaur, Shamala 
Gopalakrishnan).  

Transcription support was provided from the research 
arms of Home Team Behavioural Science Centre and 
Psychological and Correctional Rehabilitation Division, 
Singapore Prison Service. 

Advisors

Dr Majeed Khader, Chief Psychologist, Office of Chief 
Psychologist; Director of Home Team Behavioural Sciences 

Mr Timothy Leo, Deputy Chief Psychologist, Office of Chief 
Psychologist, Director of Psychological and Correctional 
Rehabilitation Division, SPS 

Research Advisory Panel 

We would like to thank the following individuals for their 
invaluable insights and suggestions throughout the research 
process:

a.	 Assistant Professor Joanne Yoong Su-Yin, NUS 

b.	 Dr Mathew Mathews, LKYSPP Senior Research Fellow

c.	 Associate Professor (Adjunct) Long FY, NTU

d.	 KC Ong, Former Chief Psychologist, MINDEF

1 Survey covered demographic variables, drug attitudes, individual 
personality features, criminal thinking patterns, sanction awareness, 
risk perceptions (risk certainty, risk severity, risk salience, risk 
celerity), contextual and situation factors that were salient from the 
qualitative study.

78
Home Team Journal

References

Apel, R. (2013). Sanctions, perceptions and crime: implications 
for criminal deterrence. Journal of Quantitative Criminology, 29, 
67-101. 

Baron, R.A., Hmieleski, K.M., & Henry, R.A. (2012). 
Entrepreneurs’ dispositional positive affect: the potential benefits 
and potential costs of being “up.”  J. Bus. Ventur. 27(3), 310–24.

Bouffard, J.A. (2015). Examining the direct and indirect effects of 
fear and anger on criminal decision-making. International Journal 
of Offender Therapy and Comparative Criminology, 59(13) 
1385–1408. 

Burt, C.H., & Simons, R.L. (2013). Self-control, thrill seeking and 
crime. Criminal Justice and Behavior, 40(11), 1326-1348.

Chalfin, A. & McCrary, J. (2017). Criminal deterrence: A review of 
the literature. Journal of Economic Literature, 55(1), 5-48.

Curcione, N. (1997). Suburban snowmen: Facilitating factors in 
the careers of middle-class coke dealers. Deviant Behavior, 18(3), 
233-253.

Decker, S. Wright, R., & Lodie, R. (1993). Perceptual deterrence 
amongst active residential burglars: A research note. Criminology, 
31, 135-147.

Fisher, R.P., & Geiselman, R.E. (1992). Memory-enhancing 
techniques for investigative interviewing: The cognitive interview. 
Springfield, IL, England: Charles C Thomas, Publisher

Frese, M., & Gielnik, M. (2014). Criminal entrepreneurship, 
white-collar criminality, and neutralization theory. Journal of 
Enterprising Communities: People and Places in the Global 
Economy, 5 (4),300-308.

Gottschalk, P., & Smith, R. (2011). Criminal entrepreneurship, 
white-collar criminality, and neutralization theory. Journal of 
Enterprising Communities: People and Places in the Global 
Economy, 5 (4), 300-308. 

Gutnik, L.A., Hakimzada, A.F., Yoskowitz, N.A., & Patel, V.L. 
(2005). The role of emotion in decision-making: A cognitive 
neuroeconomic approach towards understanding sexual risk 
behavior. Journal of Biomedical Informatics, 39, 720–736.

Heath, J. (2008). Business Ethics and Moral Motivation: A 
Criminological Perspective, Journal of Business Ethics, 83, 595-
614.

Jacobs, B. (2010) Deterrence and deterrability. Criminology, 48, 
417–441.

Kleck G., Sever B., Li, S., & Gertz, M. (2005). The missing link in 
general deterrence research. Criminology, 43, 623–659.

Klein, G. A., Calderwood, R., & MacGregor, D. (1989). Critical 
Decision Method for Eliciting Knowledge. IEEE Transactions on 
Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, 19 (3), 462–472.

Koellinger, P., Minniti, M., & Schade, C. (2007). “I think I can, I 
think I can”: overconfidence and entrepreneurial behavior. J. Econ. 
Psychol. 28 (4), 502–527.

Little, M., & Steinberg, L. (2006). Psychosocial correlates of 
adolescent drug dealing in the inner city: Potential roles of 
opportunity, conventional commitments, and maturity. Journal of 
Research in Crime and Delinquency, 43 (4), 357-386.

Loxton, N.J., Wan, V.L.N., Ho, A.M., Cheung, B.K., Tam, N., 
Leung, F.Y., & Stadlin, A. (2008). Impulsivity in Hong Kong-
Chinese club-drug users. Drug and Alcohol Dependence, 95, 
81-89.

Macit, R. (2017). Becoming a drug dealer in Turkey. Journal of 
Drug Issues, 48(1), 106–117.

Moeller, K., Copes, H. & Hochstetler, A. (2016). Advancing 
restrictive deterrence: A qualitative meta-synthesis, Journal of 
Criminal Justice, 46, 82-93.

Mohamed, A.R., & Fritsvold, E. (2007). Damn, It Feels Good to 
be a Gangsta: the Social Organization of the Illicit Drug Trade 
Servicing a Private College Campus. Deviant Behavior, 27(1), 
97-125,

Morselli, C. & Tremblay, P.  (2004). Criminal Achievement, 
Offender Networks and the Benefits of Low Self-Control. 
Criminology, 42, 773-804.

Nagin, D. (2013). Deterrence in the twenty-first century. Crime and 
Justice, 42(1), 199-263.

Odum, A.L., Madden, G.J., Badger, G.J., & Bickel, W.K. (2000). 
Needle sharing in opioid-dependent outpatients: Psychological 
processes underlying risk. Drug and Alcohol Dependence, 60, 
259-266.

Paternoster, R. (2010). How much do we really know about 
criminal deterrence? The Journal of Criminal Law and 
Criminology, 765–824.

Pratt, T.C., Cullen, F.T., Blevins, K.R., Daigle, L.E., & Madensen, 
T.D. (2006). The empirical status of deterrence theory: a meta-
analysis. In: Cullen FT, Wright JP, Blevins KR (eds) Taking stock: 
the status of criminological theory. Transaction, New Brunswick, 
pp 367–395.

Shammas, V.L., Sandbery, S., & Pedersen, W. (2014). Trajectories 
to mid-and-higher-level drug crimes- Penal misrepresentations of 
drug dealers in Norway. Brit. J. Crimonol. 54, 592–612

79
Special Issue •  January 2020

About the Authors:

Dr Jasmin Kaur is a principal psychologist and Senior Assistant Director, Data Science Branch within 
the Singapore Prison Service (SPS). She leads a drug workgroup for the Office of Chief Psychologist. 
She has conducted research on offending patterns, forensic risk assessment tools, and understanding 
offending behaviour, specifically drug offenders and violent offenders. In addition to her research 
portfolio, she has been a practising clinician for over 10 years, seeing clients with a variety of behavioural 
difficulties and mental health issues. Dr Jasmin Kaur holds a Doctorate in Clinical Psychology from 
James Cook University, Australia.

Teo Kah Shun is currently a psychologist at Central Narcotics Bureau (CNB). Her work areas include 
drug risk assessments for youth offenders and conceptualisation of evaluation frameworks for community 
programmes in drug operations and prevention. As a research analyst at CNB previously, she was involved 
in various fields of drug research including drug prevention, trafficking and rehabilitation. She continues 
to conduct research focusing on drug prevention areas like youths’ perceptions of social norms and media 
interpretation. 

Salina Samion joined the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) as a psychologist with the Singapore Prison 
Service (SPS) in 2003, where she was instrumental in the development of mental resilience services 
and evidence-informed offender rehabilitation programmes. She is currently a Principal Psychologist 
overseeing the Psychological Unit with the Central Narcotics Bureau (CNB), MHA. Prior to joining 
MHA, Salina was working in the community setting serving low-income families and the protection of 
vulnerable children. Apart from direct work, Salina has a deep passion in training and development as 
seen from her engagement as an adjunct faculty member with the then-SIM University, where she developed and delivered 
counselling courses at undergraduate and graduate levels. Salina’s current focus is in issues related to drug abuse prevention 
and intervention, particularly amongst youths. She is also interested in research areas pertaining to the cultural nuances of 
offending and intervention and is currently pursuing a Doctoral Degree in this area.

Simon, M., & Shrader, R.C. (2012). Entrepreneurial actions and 
optimistic overconfidence: the role of motivated reasoning in new 
product introductions. J. Bus. Ventur. 27 (3), 291–309.

Sykes, G., & Matza, D. (1957). Techniques of Neutralization: 
A Theory of Delinquency. American Sociological Review (22), 
664-670.

Van Nostrand, L., & Tewksbury, R. (1999). The motives and 
mechanics of operating an illegal drug enterprise, Deviant 
Behavior, 20 (1), 57-83, DOI: 10.1080/016396299266597

Walters, G.D. (2005). Criminal belief systems: A integrated-
interactive theory of lifestyles. Westport, Conn: Praeger. Chicago.

Ward, D., Stafford, M., & Gray, L. (2006). Rational Choice, 
Deterrence, and Theoretical Integration. Journal of Applied Social 
Psychology. 36. 571 - 585.

Wright, V. (2010). Deterrence in criminal justice: Evaluating 
certainty vs. severity of punishment. The Sentencing Project.

80
Home Team Journal

Abstract 

To deal with drug trafficking and abuse, the Singapore Government adopted a four-pronged anti-
drug strategy. This strategy comprised targeted preventive education; tough laws and effective 
enforcement; comprehensive rehabilitation and supervision programmes; and working with families, 
NGOs and the community to rehabilitate and reintegrate ex-drug abusers into society. Singapore’s 
anti-drug strategy has been shaped by three factors: (1) Singapore’s long history in battling drug 
abuse; (2) its reliance on evidence of what works within the Singapore context to contain its drug 
situation; and (3) its environment– challenges posed by regional and global developments that 
impede Singapore’s effort to keep the state drug-free. 

Singapore’s 
Anti-drug Strategy: 

A Sum of Experience,  
Evidence and Environment

Lal Nelson

Research & Statistics Division, Ministry of Home Affairs, Singapore

Introduction

Singapore’s battle with drug abuse has its roots in the 
opium trade started by its British colonial masters 
in the early 1800s.  While there were concerns over 
drug abuse during the colonial era, Singapore drug 
abuse situation took a turn for the worse in the late 
1960s. The global hippie movement of the 1960s 
and 1970s, which popularised a drug culture, and 
Singapore’s proximity to a major drug-producing 
region (the “Golden Triangle” in Laos, Myanmar 
and Thailand) led to an increase in drug abuse in 
the local population, as well as more drugs being 
smuggled into Singapore.   

Since the early 1970s, the Singapore government 
has made a concerted effort to minimise drug 
abuse and reduce drug trafficking. It has regularly 

reviewed the various measures put in place to 
address the drug situation and over time adopted 
a four-pronged anti-drug strategy: (1) targeted 
preventive education; (2) tough laws and effective 
enforcement; (3) comprehensive rehabilitation and 
supervision programmes; and (4) working with 
families, NGOs, and the community to help ex-
abusers reintegrate into society.  

In this paper, I will argue that Singapore’s anti-
drug strategy is shaped by: (1) Singapore’s long 
and arduous experience in fighting the drug 
problem; (2) evidence that tough laws and effective 
rehabilitation work; and (3) challenges to our 
environment, where both regional and international 
actors test our resolve to keep the state drug-free.

81
Special Issue •  January 2020

A Perennial Battle against Drug Abuse 

Singapore’s history of drug abuse goes back to the 
beginning of its colonial era. Opium was popular 
among early Chinese immigrants in Singapore. 
Smoking opium was not just a status symbol for 
the wealthy, but it also became popular among the 
labourers. For these labourers, who worked long 
hours in harsh conditions and lived in crowded 
accommodations, opium was a source of solace. 
Some used opium as a panacea for diseases like 
cholera and dysentery (Abdullah, 2005). 

The harm associated with drug addiction was noted 
early in Singapore’s history. In 1848, a British 
government surgeon, Dr Richard Little, published 
a report highlighting the dangers of drug addiction. 
He proposed having official control over the spread 
of opium smoking as “he discovered a worrying 
trend – opium smoking was no longer the pastime 
of the affluent but had permeated all sections of the 
community” (Tan, 2006:12). In addition to draining 
the addicts’ financial resources, opium addition had 
also severely affected their mental and physical 
health (Tan, 2006).

Despite Dr Little’s observations, the British 
generally viewed the use of opium as beneficial 
for its medicinal and consoling effects on the 
labourers, rather than as harmful for its addictive 
properties when excessively consumed. However, 
a group of western-educated Straits Chinese, 
supported by religious organisations observing the 
ill effects of opium smoking, pressed for its ban. A 
1907 commission to look into the problems linked 
to opium smoking did not find grounds to ban 
opium smoking but recommended to ban its sale to 
children, women and in brothels. (Abdullah, 2005).

Recognising its economic value, the British set 
up an opium packing plant in Singapore in 1914, 
making it a major opium distribution centre. 
However, as opium consumption increased among 
the local population, opium merchants became 
reluctant to employ workers who smoked opium as 

they were perceived to be unsteady and unreliable. 
The colonial government then gradually started 
to impose restrictions on the sale of opium. From 
1925, opium smokers were restricted to opium use 
within their own premises. In 1929, it became a 
requirement for opium smokers to be registered. 
This made unregistered opium smoking illegal 
(Abdullah, 2005).

During the Japanese occupation of Singapore, the 
Japanese encouraged the local Chinese population 
to smoke opium as a means to keep them under 
control. Around this time, the use of other drugs 
like cannabis and morphine were also becoming 
more prevalent in Singapore.  Upon their return 
to Singapore after the Second World War, the 
British enacted new laws to deal with drug abuse. 
In 1951, the British introduced the Dangerous 
Drugs Ordinance (DDO) to replace all previous 
drug-related legislation. The DDO criminalised 
unauthorised possession of opium, cannabis, 
morphine, cocaine and heroin. Apart from imposing 
penalties, the Ordinance also required mandatory 
treatment and rehabilitation of abusers. In 1955, 
an opium treatment centre was set up in St John’s 
Island for the rehabilitation of opium addicts (Lee 
et. al., 2018).  

In 1952, the Singapore Police Force (SPF) set up 
a special unit within the Criminal Investigation 
Department to control drug abuse. The SPF also set up 
another new unit, the Central Narcotics Intelligence 
Bureau, to collect intelligence on trafficking drugs 
into Singapore (Ong & Iralowitz, 1996).

In June 1959, Singapore attained self-rule and 
almost immediately launched a campaign against 
“yellow culture”, a term that referred to decadent 
behaviours 
like 
gambling, 
opium 
smoking, 
pornography and prostitution. The government was 
concerned that the hippie movement of the West, 
which was strongly associated with a drug culture, 
would gain traction in Singapore (NLB online). 
 

82
Home Team Journal

It is likely that these measures accounted for the 
gradual decrease in the number of persons arrested 
for drug abuse.  The number of abusers arrested fell 
from a high of 4276 persons in 1953 to 604 persons 
arrested in 1962 (Ong & Iralowitz, 1996).  

From the mid-1960s, the drug abuse problem in 
Singapore was on the rise again. Towards the end 
of the 1960s and early 1970s, there was an increase 
in persons arrested for possession of cannabis. 
Although the government had taken steps to stem 
the influence of the hippie movement, it was 
likely that the movement had an impact on local 
population as more addicts were found consuming 
cannabis and MX pills (National Council Against 
Drug Abuse, 1998). 

There were also more seizures of cannabis 
smuggled into Singapore. Then Parliamentary 
Secretary for Ministry of Finance, Tang See Chin, 
reported that Singapore Customs had seized 192.9 
lbs (approximately 87.5 kg) of cannabis shipped 
in the first six months of 1970 compared to 61.9 
lbs (approximately 27.7 kg) in the same period in a 
year earlier (Tang, 1970).  

Around the same time, a new drug – heroin – 
entered the Singapore drug scene. The number 
of heroin abusers arrested in 1972 was just four 
persons or 3.4% of all abusers arrested. This grew 
very quickly to 2,263 persons arrested for heroin 
abuse (or 53.9% of all abusers arrested) in 1975 
(Ong and Iralowitz, 1996). Heroin was also popular 
among younger drug abusers as 68% of the 2,550 
younger drug abusers arrested (aged 14 to 25 years) 
abused heroin (Hanam, 1976). 

Also of concern was the number of drug-related 
deaths. Between 1969 and 1974, forensic 
pathologist Chao Tzee Cheng observed 65 cases 
of drug-related deaths, the majority of which were 
the result of addicts over-dosing on the streets  
(Tan, 2006).

Against this backdrop, the Singapore government 
embarked on a concerted effort against drug abuse 
and trafficking. A key development was the setting 
up of a new and dedicated Government department 
– the Central Narcotics Bureau (CNB) – in 1971 to 
lead the fight against drug abuse and trafficking in 
Singapore. 

Recognising that the existing legislation to control 
drug abuse and trafficking was inadequate, the 
Government introduced the Misuse of Drugs Act 
(MDA) in 1973.  The MDA replaced the Dangerous 
Drugs Ordinance (1951) and the Drugs (Prevention 
of Misuse) Act of 1969. The MDA contained several 
new features. It made a clear distinction between 
drug traffickers and drug abusers, differentiating 
the kinds of penalties administered to the offenders 
in each group.  The MDA also listed 127 substances 
as controlled drugs. The MDA gave new powers 
to law enforcement officers to search, seize and 
detain offenders who smuggled controlled drugs 
in ships, aircrafts, trains and other vehicles where 
they had reasonable grounds to suspect controlled 
drugs were being trafficked. Heavier penalties were 
imposed on drug traffickers.  

The MDA also gave law enforcement officers powers 
to obtain urine samples from suspected addicts and 
commit abusers for compulsory treatment (Chua, 
1973). The opium treatment centre was renamed the 
Drug Rehabilitation Centre (DRC) to allow it to take 
in other types of drug abusers (Lee et. al., 2018). 
The DRC was used for the compulsory treatment 
and rehabilitation of drug abusers.

Despite these measures, the number of heroin 
addicts arrested continued to rise. The number of 
heroin abusers arrested rose from 3,225 persons in 
1974 to 4,201 persons in 1975 (Ong and Iralowitz, 
1996). The number of traffickers arrested had also 
increased from six in the first six months of 1974 to 
twenty-six over the corresponding period in 1975 
(Chua, 1975).

83
Special Issue •  January 2020

To deal with the worsening drug situation, the 
Government made further amendments to the MDA 
in 1975. Explaining the need for the amendments, 
then Minister for Home Affairs, Chua Sian Chin, 
raised concerns of a rampant drug culture taking 
root in Singapore, weakening its social fabric and 
undermining its economy. Chua explained that 
Singapore’s easy access by sea, air, road and rail made 
it difficult to detect the smuggling of illicit drugs. 
Furthermore, its proximity to the Golden Triangle 
(Laos, Myanmar and Thailand), raised Singapore’s 
vulnerability to drug trafficking (Chua, 1975).

The MDA was amended to enhance penalties 
for drug offences, including the introduction 
of the mandatory death penalty (MDP) for the 
unauthorised manufacturing, importation and 
trafficking of more than 30 grams of morphine or 
more than 15 grams of diamorphine (Lee et. al., 
2018).   

In a concerted effort to flush out drug abusers and 
traffickers, Operation Ferret, co-ordinated by CNB 
with the help of other government agencies, was 
launched on 1 April 1977.  This operation was highly 
successful as more than 7,000 drug offenders were 
arrested each year in 1977 and 1978.  For the next 
10 years, the drug problem remained stable with 
the number of drug offenders arrested remaining 
between 3,000 and 4,000. 

However, in 1988, the number of drug abusers 
arrested exceeded 6,000 offenders (Ong and 
Iralowitz, 1996). Accounting for the rise in drug 
abusers in 1989, then Minister for Home Affairs, 
Professor Jayakumar, noted that there had been 
a bumper production of heroin from the Golden 
Triangle, especially from Myanmar, and highlighted 
that our neighbouring countries too had reported an 
increase in seizures of heroin. Professor Jayakumar 
also raised concerns over the increased popularity of 
cannabis among local abusers and the potential for 

cocaine to enter the Singapore drug scene, as it was 
already very popular in the West (Jayakumar, 1989). 

To address these concerns, the MDA was amended 
in 1989. The amendments extended  the mandatory 
death penalty to trafficking more than 1.2kg of 
opium, more than 30g of cocaine, more than 500g 
of cannabis, or more than 200g of cannabis resin. 
The amendments also made it mandatory for repeat 
drug abusers to be jailed for a minimum of three 
years, up from two years previously (Lee et. al., 
2018).    

Between 1989 and 1992, the number of drug 
abusers arrested remained stable ranging between 
5,000 and 6,000 offenders each year (Ong and 
Iralowitz, 1996). However, more addicts were 
admitted into DRCs. In 1993, 4,749 addicts were 
admitted into DRCs, representing a 24% increase 
over 1991. It was also observed that 70% of the 
addicts relapsed within two years of their release. 
The total DRC population in 1993 stood at a high 
of 8,130 addicts (Wong, 1994). 

To make further improvements, a committee led 
by then Parliamentary Secretary, Ministry of 
Home Affairs, Associate Professor Ho Peng Kee, 
was set up in 1993 to review the drug situation in 
Singapore. The committee proposed an integrated 
anti-drug strategy comprising four pillars: (1) 
preventive drug education; (2) tough laws and 
rigorous enforcement; (3) effective treatment 
and rehabilitation of offenders; and (4) continued 
after-care of ex-offenders with the support of the 
community. Taken together, these four pillars 
formed the core components of Singapore’s anti-
drug strategy.  

To advise the Government on drug policies and 
to mobilise public support for drug education 
programmes, the National Council Against Drug 
Abuse (NCADA) was formed in 1995. A number 

84
Home Team Journal

of community-based programmes were introduced 
in 1995, including a residential scheme for inmates 
with strong family support; halfway houses for 
inmates without family support and a work release 
scheme to allow inmates to work during the day.

To discourage drug offenders from relapsing, the 
MDA was amended in 1998 to introduce the Long 
Term (LT) imprisonment regime for recalcitrant 
abusers. With this amendment, repeat drug abusers 
who had been admitted to the DRCs twice or had 
been convicted of a drug consumption offence 
twice previously would be liable for caning and 
long-term imprisonment of between 5 and 7 years 
(known as LT1).  LT1 abusers who re-offended for 
drug consumption offences would be liable to up 
to 13 years of imprisonment and caning (known as 
LT2) (Lee et. al., 2018).  

Improvements 
to 
preventive 
education, 
rehabilitation regimes and the introduction of 
harsher punitive measures combined to discourage 
new abusers and reduce relapse rates, bringing  the 
drug problem under control. The number of abusers 
arrested fell by around half, from 201.7 persons 
per 100,000 resident population in 1993, to 100.3 
persons per 100,000 resident population in 2002 
(see Table 1). 

A Strategy Based on What Works

The Harm Reduction Experiment that did not 
Work

Approaches to deal with the problems associated 
with drug abuse can be grouped into two broad 
categories: harm reduction and harm prevention.  
Every country has to decide for itself which 
approach or stance it wants to take. 

Generally, countries that take a harm reduction 
approach advocate drug consumption in ways 
that are assumed to be safe, rather than treat 
drug consumption as a crime. The proponents of 
harm reduction usually utilise two programmes: 
the needle and syringe programme; and opiate 
substitution therapy. Essentially, the needle and 
syringe programme involves the distribution 
of clean injecting kits and supervised injecting 
facilities for the safe use of drugs. Opiate 
substitution therapy involves treating drug abusers 
with medication that has a similar effect of the 
drug that they are abusing but without withdrawal 
symptoms and craving (Quah, 2020).

Harm prevention, on the other hand, emphasises 
prevention, treatment and rehabilitation to avert the 

Table 1. Drug Abusers Arrested Per 100.000 Resident Population (1993-2002) 

Source: CNB’s Drug Situation Reports and Department of Statistics. Figures in parenthesis refer to total number arrested.

85
Special Issue •  January 2020

harm that drug abuse brings. Compared to the harm 
reduction approach that facilitates the consumption 
of drugs, the focus of harm prevention is on 
abstinence (Quah, 2020).    

Quah (2020), in her study of 11 countries that 
took a harm reduction approach, reports on 
several problems associated with this approach. 
For instance, while the intention of a needle and 
syringe programme is to provide abusers with safe 
use of drugs, it does not guarantee that they will 
not share needles or inject themselves only at safe 
injecting facilities. In addition, Quah (2020) also 
found an increase in deaths resulting from overdose 
in eight of the 11 countries in her study. 

Quah (2020) also observed that harm prevention 
offered a more comprehensive solution to drug 
abuse as it took into account many factors that led to 
addiction and sustained the habit.  For instance, Quah 
(2020) found that it was important to promote a drug-
free environment and encourage a drug-free culture. 
It was also important to recognise that drug abuse was 
not just self-inflicted harm but a social harm as well, 
affecting the abuser’s family, friends and community. 
Finally, because of the biological damage caused 
by drug abuse, many addicts lacked the self-control 
required to seek the treatment they needed. Hence, 
mandatory treatment programmes are essential to 
rehabilitate drug abusers (Quah, 2020).

While Singapore’s approach to address its drug abuse 
problem has always relied on harm prevention, it did 
experiment briefly with substitution treatment for 
opiate-dependent drug abusers. In 2002, the Centre 
for Drug Administration of Singapore’s Ministry 
of Health allowed the use of buprenorphine (also 
known as Subutex), a drug typically used to treat 
opiate dependence. 

Shortly after its introduction, drug abusers were 
abusing Subutex by mixing it with other drugs 
and injecting the cocktail into their body. Hence, 
instead of reducing opiate dependence, abusers 
were becoming dependent on this cocktail. Between 
September 2003 and August 2005, there were 
50 buprenorphine-associated deaths. Clinicians 

observed a number of cases with complications 
like abscesses, gangrene, limb amputations, etc. 
Media reports highlighted indiscriminate disposal 
of needles and hotspots where Subutex users 
congregated. Within four years of introduction, 
there were at least 3,800 known Subutex users in 
Singapore (Lee, 2006).

All these led to significant public concerns. To reign 
in the abuse, Subutex was included as controlled 
drug under the MDA in August 2006.  

Programmes that have Helped Drug Offenders

Being on the doorsteps of one of the world’s 
largest drug producing regions in the world – the 
Golden Triangle (Laos, Myanmar, Thailand), 
there is always a ready supply of illicit drugs 
trying to make its way into Singapore. Hence, 
it is not surprising that after the initial success in 
bringing down the number of abusers arrested in 
early 2000s, the drug situation in Singapore began 
to worsen in the late 2000s. The number of drug 
abusers arrested rose from 61.7 in 2007 to 76.5 in 
2010 per 100,000 resident population. This could 
be attributed to the increase in the number of heroin 
abusers arrested which rose from 19.3 in 2007 to 
47.5 in 2010 per 100,000 residents. There was also 
an increase in methamphetamine abusers arrested 
which rose from 6.2 in 2007 to 18.6 in 2010 per 
100,000 residents.

This rising trend spurred the setting up of an inter-
Ministry taskforce to review the situation in 2011. 
After completing its review in 2012, the taskforce 
made three recommendations: (1) increase the 
number of rehabilitation programmes to meet the 
criminogenic needs of drug abusers; (2) introduce 
a gradual step down care; and (3) introduce 
mandatory aftercare for drug offenders who had a 
high risk of re-offending.  

To improve the rehabilitation of drug abusers, the 
Singapore Prison Service (SPS) introduced two 
additional programmes for DRC inmates (Integrated 
Criminogenic Programme – Modified (ICP-M) for 
those with low severity of drug abuse, and High on 

86
Home Team Journal

Life (HoL) for those with moderate to high severity 
of drug abuse. The programmes targeted different 
profiles of drug abusers and inmates at higher risk 
of relapse with more intensive programmes and 
addressed a range of their criminogenic needs.  

Recognising the need for a gradual step down 
from a DRC to a Halfway House, SPS introduced 
the Enhanced Drug Rehabilitation Regime. Under 
this regime, drug inmates assessed to be at higher 
risk of relapse were placed on longer periods of 
intensive rehabilitation programmes. prior to the 
release to an after-care facility. 

In 2014, the Prisons Act was amended to introduce 
the Mandatory Aftercare Scheme (MAS) to help 
high-risk inmates, including drug abusers (LT 
inmates), to stay drug-free upon their release. 
Ten months prior to their release, these offenders 
undergo intensive programmes addressing their 
criminogenic needs, family and social functioning, 
and employability skills in SPS’s pre-release 
centre. Following their release, they continue to 
receive supervision and counselling, be subject to 
curfew and urine tests and are monitored though 
electronic tagging. Mandatory after-care for such 
drug abusers could last for up to two years after 
their release. 

As the first batch of drug offenders to receive 
mandatory after-care were only emplaced on 
the scheme in 2017, data on the efficacy of this 
programme is not yet available. However, the 
in-care rehabilitation programmes introduced 
earlier already seem to have an effect on lowering 
recidivism. Based on data on two-year recidivism 
rates, the findings for all sentence types have shown 
improvement over the last few years (see Table 2).

Tough Laws to Keep a Lid on Drug Trafficking

Singapore’s close proximity to the Golden Triangle 
means that there is a need to stem the supply of 
illicit drugs into Singapore in addition to helping 
drug abusers recover from their addiction. Hence, 
Singapore relies on tough laws, including capital 
punishment, to keep a tight lid on drug trafficking 
into Singapore.

Generally, countries reserve capital punishment for 
the most serious crimes. The UN Economic and 
Social Council defines most serious crimes to be 
“intentional crimes with lethal or other extremely 
grave consequences” (United Nations, 1984).

Singapore considers drug trafficking to be among 
the most serious crimes. There is sufficient 
evidence that drug trafficking generates grave 
consequences to society through crime and other 
social ills. Sidhu (2020a) in her review of literature 
on the link between drugs and crime found that 
there is substantial empirical evidence that drug 
abusers have a higher tendency to commit crime. 
She cites several studies in her review that showed 
a link between drug abuse and violent crimes, as 
well as with property crimes (Sidhu, 2020a).

Even in the case of cannabis, a drug assumed by 
some to be safe for recreational use, Sidhu (2020b) 
found several studies that showed that cannabis 
was a gateway drug for other types of illicit drug 
abuse. She also found evidence that cannabis had 
adverse effects on the life outcomes of adolescents 
in terms of education attainment, employment, 
delinquency and ability to adapt to adult roles. In 
the US state of Colorado, legalisation of cannabis 
may have led to an increase in traffic accidents 

Table 2. Recidivism Rates by Sentence Type (2011-2016)

Source: Data from Singapore Prison Service (SPS). Data for recidivism rates after 2016 is not available at point of publication.

87
Special Issue •  January 2020

resulting in deaths. The number of drivers who 
tested positive for cannabis who were involved in 
accidents resulting in deaths rose from 55 in 2013 
to 138 in 2017 (Sidhu, 2020b). 

Given these serious concerns, Singapore imposes 
the mandatory death penalty for trafficking of a 
large amount of drugs. For example, trafficking 
in 15 grams or more of pure heroin (diamorphine) 
in Singapore would attract the death penalty. 
Although 15 grams of diamorphine appears to be 
a small amount, CNB estimates that this amount is 
equivalent to 1,250 straws of heroin, which would 
be sufficient to sustain 180 abusers for a week. 

Critics of the death penalty argue that there is no 
evidence that capital punishment deters traffickers. 
However, as pointed by Chia (2020), there are 
studies that suggest that the death penalty is an 
effective deterrent against crimes that are liable for 
the death penalty, even though there are also studies 
that are unable to establish a significant statistical 
relationship. Chia’s own study on the deterrent 
impact of the death penalty on drug trafficking in 
Singapore found that the introduction of MDP for 
cannabis and opium in 1990 likely had a deterrent 
effect on trafficking behaviour for these drug types 
(Chia, 2020). 

Kaur et. al. (2020) also reported evidence that tough 
laws had a deterrent effect in their study on the 
decision-making processes of drug traffickers. The 
authors found that sanction awareness predicted 
risk perception and that traffickers who restricted 
their trafficking had higher levels of sanction 
awareness (Kaur et. al., 2020).

Singapore’s tough laws on drug trafficking have 
managed to keep a lid on the drug trade. The 
number of traffickers arrested has remained 
relatively stable over the last ten years, averaging 
about 600 traffickers a year. 

Keeping Singapore Drug Free Amidst a 
Challenging Environment 

The global drug situation is a bleak one. The United 

Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) 
estimated that 271 million people in the world 
used drugs in 2016. This is about 30 per cent 
higher than in 2008. In 2017, an estimated 35 
million people suffered from drug use disorders, 
while about 585,000 people died from drug use. 
Two Asian countries are the largest producers of 
opium – Afghanistan and Myanmar. The quantities 
of opioids seized in 2017 was an all-time high of 
693 tons. Cannabis was the most widely used drug 
with an estimated 188 million users worldwide 
(UNODC, 2019).  

As the global drug situation changes, many 
countries have weakened their resolve to fight their 
drug problems. As mentioned earlier, some have 
turned towards harm reduction strategies, and other 
have resorted to legalisation of certain drugs like 
marijuana.

Against this backdrop, both regional and global 
developments regularly challenge Singapore’s 
efforts to keep the state drug-free. 

Regional Challenges to Keeping Singapore 
Drug-free 

Singapore’s proximity to the Golden Triangle 
(Laos, Myanmar and Thailand), the second largest 
heroin producing centre in Asia, has been an 
important driver in shaping its anti-drug strategy.

At its peak in 1996, over 160,000 hectares (ha) of 
land in Myanmar were used to cultivate opium, 
making it the most prominent opium cultivator 
in the world. However, efforts to reduce opium 
production in the region, combined with a decline 
in demand for heroin saw the cultivation area fall to 
36,100 ha (UNODC, 2018). Yet Myanmar remains 
the main supplier of illegal opium and heroin in 
East and Southeast Asia, producing opiates with a 
market value in excess of USD 1.1 to 2.3 billion 
(UNODC, 2018).

As demand for heroin decreased and that for 
methamphetamines increased, drug producers in 
the region turned their effort toward increasing 

88
Home Team Journal

the supply of the latter. A 2019 UNODC report 
on synthetic drugs in East and South-East Asia 
observed that in recent years, transnational 
organised crime groups have increasingly produced 
methamphetamine and other drugs in the Golden 
Triangle (UNODC, 2019a). The 2019 UNODC 
study also reported that by the third quarter of 2018, 
methamphetamine seizures in the region totalled 
116 metric tons, exceeding the previous high of 82 
metric tons in 2017 (UNODC, 2019a).

The 
impact 
of 
the 
higher 
production 
of 
methamphetamines in the Golden Triangle is visible 
in Singapore. According to data provided by CNB, 
the amount of methamphetamines and cannabis 
seized in recent years have increased (see Table 3). 
More worryingly, the number of methamphetamine 
and cannabis abusers have increased (see Table 4).  

Table 3. Selected Seizures by Drug Type (2009 – 2018)

Table 4. Drug Abusers Arrested by Drug Type Per 100.000 Resident Population (2009-2018)

It is clear that the lucrative revenue that the illicit 
drug trade brings encourages the regional drug 
lords to risk their drug couriers being caught. 
Tough laws, as part of Singapore’s overall anti-drug 
strategy, have helped to contain the drug menace in 
Singapore.

Global Push towards Legalisation of Cannabis 

Apart from regional developments, one major 
global development has been the trend among 
many countries to legalise the cultivation, sale 
and consumption of cannabis. It is likely that 
many of these countries, including those who do 
so for medical (so-called) purposes, take this route 
because they have given up on the fight against 
widespread cannabis abuse and because of the lure 
of huge commercial gain from legalisation.   

Source: CNB’s Drug Situation Reports and Department of Statistics. Figures in parenthesis refer to total number arrested. 

Source: CNB’s Drug Situation Reports.

89
Special Issue •  January 2020

In 2013, Uruguay became the first country in 
world to make the growing, sale and consumption 
of cannabis legal. In supporting the bill to 
legalise cannabis in Uruguay, Sebastian Sabini, 
the president of the parliamentary commission 
set up to debate the bill said, “The war on drugs 
has failed. There are more consumers and more 
violence.” (Gilbert, 2012). Canada, which was the 
next country to fully legalise cannabis, did so for 
similar reasons. Its Prime Minister, Justin Trudeau, 
has argued that its anti-drug abuse laws had been 
ineffective – pointing out that Canadians were 
heavy users (BBC, 2018). 

In Europe, Luxembourg became the first European 
country to legalise cannabis for recreational use. 
As with most other who have legalised recreational 
cannabis, Luxembourg did so because its battle 
with cannabis abuse had been unsuccessful 
(Boffrey, 2019).

In the United States, the state of Colorado and the 
District of Columbia legalised the medical and 
recreational use of cannabis in 2012. Following 
this, nine more US states have moved quickly to 
legalise cannabis, with the state of Illinois being the 
latest.  Thirty-three states in the United States now 
allow the consumption of cannabis for medical 
purposes (Rense, 2019).  In Asia, South Korea, and 
more recently Thailand, have legalised cannabis for 
medical purposes (UNODC, 2019c).

The increased pace of legalisation of cannabis 
around the world, coinciding with the increase 
in both the supply of and demand for cannabis in 
Singapore, is a major concern to the authorities 
in Singapore. This concern is accentuated by the 
findings from a recent survey, which shows a more 
liberal attitude among younger Singaporeans aged 
30 years and below, toward cannabis consumption. 
The survey showed that 80% of those aged 30 years 
and below agreed that cannabis should remain 
illegal compared to 89% of those above 30 years 
(Liang, 2020). 

Singapore’s concerns over the liberal attitudes of 
younger Singaporeans towards cannabis stems 

from the evidence that cannabis use is linked to the 
increased use of other illicit drugs and that young 
cannabis users compared to cannabis abstainers 
were more prone to deviant behaviours and fared 
poorer on school, mental health, family and peer 
relationship outcomes (Sidhu, 2020b). These 
concerns underline the Singapore government 
resolve to keep the menace of cannabis out of reach 
of its citizens.

Emerging Issues Likely to Impede the 
Battle against Drugs

Dealing with Commercial Giants Bent on a Profit 
Motive

While interest groups lobbying for the liberalisation 
of cannabis laws have traditionally framed the 
movement as motivated by social justice and/or 
health issues, the commercial motivations behind 
the movement have become increasingly obvious 
as the cannabis industry expands in size and enters 
into the mainstream in some countries.

For instance, in recent years, large multinational 
corporations such as the Altria Group (the makers 
of Marlboro and other cigarettes) and Constellation 
Brands (the makers of Corona and other beers) 
have purchased large stakes in cannabis companies 
through multi-billion-dollar deals (Gelles, 2018). 
Beverage giant Coca Cola was reported to be 
keeping a close watch on the sector and had 
exploratory talks with Canadian licensed producer 
Aurora Cannabis Inc. with the aim of developing 
cannabis-infused beverages (Williams, 2018).

With the entrance of these corporate interests, 
lobbying efforts to liberalise cannabis laws have 
become increasingly organised and well-funded. 
For example, a 2015 ballot initiative to legalise 
cannabis in the US state of Ohio (which did not 
come to pass) was heavily funded by a group of 
corporate investors who sought to be granted a 
legal monopoly on cannabis production in Ohio 
(Wallace & Rauch, 2016). In addition, cannabis 
companies have also recruited high profile political 
figures, including prominent persons such as John 

90
Home Team Journal

Boehner (former Republican Speaker of the US 
House of Representatives) and William F. Weld 
(former Republican Governor of the State of 
Massachusetts) to join their boards and advocate 
for the cannabis industry (Williamson, 2019).  

The Threat from New Psychoactive Substances

Beyond the threat from traditional classes of 
illicit drugs, new psychoactive substances (NPS), 
compounds that are designed to mimic established 
illicit drugs, also pose a serious problem for many 
countries and Singapore. According to CNB 
(2019), there has been a rapid increase in the 
number, type and availability of NPS across the 
globe, and their abuse has been linked to adverse 
physical and psychological reactions, including 
paranoia, seizures, hallucinations and even death.

In Singapore, NPS was the third most commonly 
abused drug in 2018. There has been a sharp 
increase in NPS abusers arrested to 343 in 2018, 
from less than ten a year before 2018 (CNB, 2019). 
The diverse constitution of new NPS drugs makes 
detection challenging and increases the difficulty to 
determine the dangers of various NPS drugs. 

Conclusion

Despite the challenges faced, Singapore has been 
relatively successful in keeping its drug abuse 
problem under check. This success accounts for the 
strong public support for Singapore’s zero-tolerance 
stance on drugs. A recent survey indicated that 
almost all Singaporeans wished to live in a drug-
free society and a vast majority found Singapore’s 
drug-related policies to be effective and supported 
these policies (Liang, 2020).

Singapore’s anti-drug strategies have evolved 
over the past 50 years and have been shaped by its 
history of battling drug abuse and trafficking, and 
is based on policies and programmes that work. 
However, being close to drug producing countries; 
with more and more countries giving up on the fight 
against drug abuse; with commercial companies 
pushing the legalisation of cannabis, and with 

many new psychoactive substances to contend 
with, Singapore’s battle to contain drug abuse is 
likely to continue for long time to come. Given the 
challenges it faces, Singapore needs to hold firm to 
its time tried-and-tested anti-drug strategy to keep 
its society drug-free.

References

Abdullah, N. ‘Exploring Constructions of the “Drug Problem” in 
Historical and Contemporary Singapore.’ New Zealand Journal of 
Asian Studies 7, no.2 (December 2005): 40–70

BBC. (17 October, 2018). Canada becomes second country to 
legalise recreational cannabis. Retrieved from https://www.bbc.
com/news/world-us-canada-45806255

Boffrey, D. (07 August, 2019). Luxembourg to be first European 
country to legalise cannabis. The Guardian. Retrieved from https://
www.theguardian.com/world/2019/aug/07/luxembourg-to-be-first-
european-country-to-legalise-cannabis

Central Narcotics Bureau. (2019). Drug Situation Report 2018. 
Singapore: Central Narcotics Bureau. Retrieved from https://
www.cnb.gov.sg/newsandevents/reports-(overview)/drug-report/
Indexdrug-situation-report-2018-new

Chia, Y.F. (2020). Deterrent Effect of Historical Amendments to 
Singapore’s Sanction Regime for Drug Trafficking. Home Team 
Journal, Special Issue (January 2020), 56-64.

Chua, S.C. (1973). Missue of Drugs Bill. Official reports - 
Parliamentary Debates (Hansard). Retrived from: https//sprs.parl.
gov.sg/search/topic?reportid=023_19730216_S0003_T0010

Chua, S.C. (1975). Missue of Drugs (Amendment) Bill. Official 
reports - Parliamentary Debates (Hansard). Retrieved from
https//sprs.parl.gov.sg/search/topic?reportid=0143_19751120_
S0002_T0008

Gibert, J. (2012). Uruguay takes ‘War on Drugs’ in New Direction: 
The State as Dealer. The Christian Science Monitor. Retrieved from
https://www.csmonitor.com/World/Americas/2012/0919/Uruguay-
takes-war-on-drugs-in-new-direction-The-state-as-dealer

Gelles, D. (12 December, 2018). When the Makers of Marlboro and 
Corona get into Marijuana. The New York Times. Retrieved from
https://www.nytimes.com/2018/12/12/business/cannabis-business-
altria-canopy-constellation-cronos.html

Hanam, J. (1976). Our Problem. In S. A.-N. Association, 
Conquer Drug Abuse Now. Singapore: Singapore Anti-Narcotics 
Association.

Jayakumar, S. (1989).  Official reports - Parliamentary Debates 
(Hansard). Budget, Ministry of Home Affairs. Retrieved from
https//sprs.parl.gov.sg/search/topic?reportid=008_19890327_
S0003_T0004

91
Special Issue •  January 2020

About the Author:

Dr Lal Nelson, Senior Director, Research and Statistics Division, joined the Ministry of Home Affairs, 
Singapore, in 2005. In his current capacity, Dr Nelson oversees research studies undertaken in support of the 
Ministry’s core functions, which include criminal justice, policing, drug-abuse control, safety, emergency 
preparedness, immigration and offender rehabilitation. Apart from these areas, the Research and Statistics 
Division also conduct studies on issues which affect security, public order and communal harmony. The 
Division also undertakes research projects utilising Behavioural Insights to nudge improvements to policy, 
operations and service outcomes for the Ministry. Dr Nelson started his career in Singapore’s Ministry of Defence in 1986, 
where he helmed research portfolios. He graduated with a PhD in Criminology from the University of Melbourne and has a 
Master degree in Social Behaviour from the London School of Economics and Political Science, University of London.  

Kaur, J., Teo, K.S., & Samion, S. (2020). The Impact of Deterrence 
on the Decision-Making Process of Drug Traffickers. Home Team 
Journal, Special Issue (January 2020), 65-80.

Lee, J., Yu, F., Auyong, H., & Chok, S. (2018). Community-based 
approaches to the Prevention, Rehabilitation and Reintegration 
of Drug Offenders: The Singapore Anti-Narcotics Association. 
Singapore: Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy, National 
University of Singapore.

Lee, C.E. (2006). Tackling Subutex Abuse in Singapore. Singapore 
Medical Journal, Singapore: 47(11):919

Liang, S.L. (2020). Public Perception towards Singapore’s Anti-
drug policies. Home Team Journal, Special Issue (January 2020), 
52-55.

National Council Against Drug Abuse. (1998). Towards a drug-free 
Singapore: Strategies, Policies and Programmes against Drugs. 
Singapore: National Council Against Drug Abuse

National Library Board. Campaign Against Yellow Culture is 
Launched. HistorySG.  Retrieved from https://eresources.nlb.gov.
sg/history/events/47129576-377a-44e-05f-fefddf0cb765

Ong, T.H. & Isralowitz, R.E. (1996). Substance Use in Singapore: 
Illegal Drugs, Inhalants and Alcohol. Singapore: Toppan Company 
(S) Pte Ltd.

Quah, S.R. (2020). From Harm Reduction to Harm Prevention: 
A Cross-national Comparison of Eleven Countries. Home Team 
Journal, Special Issue (January 2020), 4-16.

Rense, S. (27 June, 2019). America the Beautiful: These 11 States 
Let You Smoke Recreational Weed. Esquire. Retrieved from 
https://www.esquire.com/lifestyle/a21719186/all-states-that-
legalized-weed-in-us/

Sidhu, G.K. (2020a). Review of Empirical Evidence on the Link 
between Drugs and Crime. Home Team Journal, Special Issue 
(January 2020), 17-23.

Sidhu, G.K. (2020b). Societal Impact of Cannabis. Home Team 
Journal, Special Issue (January 2020), 24-29.

Tan, O. (2006). Slaying the Dragon: Singapore’s Fight Against 
Drugs. Singapore: SNP Press International.

Tang, S.C. (1970). Marijuana: Measures to End Smuggling, 
Pedding and Use. Official reports - Parliamentary Debates 
(Hansard). Retrieved from https//sprs.parl.gov.sg/search/
topic?reportid=005_19700722_S0007_T0024

UN [United Nations]. (24 May, 1984). Safeguards Guaranteeing 
Protection of the Rights of those Facing the Death Penalty. UN 
Economic and Social Council Resolution, 1984/50.

UNGASS [United Nations General Assembly Special Session on 
Drugs]. (2016). Statement for Roundtable on Demand Reduction, 
Speech by Mr K. Shanmugam, Minister for Home Affairs and 
Minster for Law.

UNODC [United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime]. (2018). 
Myanmar Opium Survey 2018: Cultivation, Production and 
Implications. United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime.

UNODC. (2019a). The Challenge of Synthetic Drugs in East and 
South East Asia. United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime.

UNODC. (2019b). World Drug Report 2019, Booklet 1: Executive 
Summary, Conclusions and Policy Implications. United Nations 
Office on Drugs and Crime

UNODC. (2019c). World Drug Report 2019, Booklet 5: Cannabis 
and Hallocinogens. United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime.

Wallace, P., & Rauch, J. (2016). Bootleggers, Baptists, 
Bureaucrats, and Bongs: How Special Interests will Shape 
Marijuana Legalization. Washington, D.C.: The Brookings 
Institution.

Williams, A. (October 5, 2018). Are investment returns from 
cannabis just a pipe dream? The Financial Times. Retrieved 
from https://www.ft.com/content/def1a0a6-c646-11e8-ba8f-
ee390057b8c9

Williamson, E. (03 June, 2019). John Boehner: From Speaker of 
the House to Cannabis Pitchman. The New York Times. Retrieved 
from http://www.nytimes.com/2016/06/03/us/politics/john-
boehner-marijuana-cannabis.amp.html

Wong, K.S. (1994) Budget, Ministry of Home Affairs. Official 
reports - Parliamentary Debates (Hansard). Retrieved from
https//sprs.parl.gov.sg/search/topic?reportid=010_19940309_
S0002_T0005

92
Home Team Journal

The Home Team comprises 11 agencies:

Ministry of Home Affairs Headquarters • Singapore Police Force • Internal Security Department 
• Singapore Civil Defence Force • Immigration & Checkpoints Authority • Singapore Prison Service 
• Central Narcotics Bureau • Home Team Academy • Home Team Science and Technology Agency  
• Casino Regulatory Authority • Singapore Corporation of Rehabilitative Enterprises

All Home Team departments and agencies work together as one, in close partnership with the community, 
to keep Singapore safe and secure.

The Home Team Academy’s mission, as the corporate university of the Home Team, is to empower 
learning and growth, and enable a united and successful Home Team. It aspires to be a leading corporate 
university in homefront safety and security.

www.mha.gov.sg/hta

ISSN: 2010-0617

