ANNUAL REPORT 2023

Keeping a Drug-free 
Society for Our Children

About the National Council Against Drug Abuse 

Chairman's Message

02

Council Members

04

Tribute to Mr Hawazi

06

Ignite Conversations, Foster Understanding

08

Supporting Partners, Building Advocacy

12

Acknowledgements

19

National Council Against Drug Abuse 

The National Council Against Drug Abuse (NCADA) was formed in January 1995. As the advisory 
council to the Minister and the Ministry of Home Affairs, NCADA’s mission is to serve as an effective 
conduit between the Government and the public by championing:

• Advocacy on policies and measures against drug abuse

• Community engagements and outreach to public to promote Singapore’s zero drug tolerance 

stance with the support of community partners

About

NCADA’s refreshed logo symbolises the Council’s vision of uniting Singapore Against Drug Abuse 
(represented by the letters ‘ADA’). The green & white anti-drug ribbon firmly wrapped around 
the letter ‘D’  represents NCADA’s central mission to champion advocacy, support community 
engagements and build affinity for the drug-free cause.

 NCADA’S ROLES ARE TO:

•	Promote national drug-free measures

•	Support community engagements for the drug-free cause

•	Serve as a conduit between the Government and the community for drug prevention efforts

1
Annual Report 2023

2

Dear Friends,

Drug abuse and the harms of drugs continue to 
pose a significant threat to millions of individuals 
worldwide. The World Health Organization 
reports a staggering 600,000 lives lost to drug 
abuse in 2019 alone. If one were to consider the 
wider ripple of harm caused to those they left 
behind – their loved ones and dependents, the 
scale of the human tragedy is manifold.

Singapore's 
steadfast 
stance 
of 
harm 

prevention, in contrast to the harm reduction 
policies pursued by some Western countries, 
remains a basis of our nation's approach to 
drug control. As a citizen advisory body, NCADA 
fully endorses and supports Singapore's zero-
tolerance stance on drug abuse. Through our 
long history of engendering conversations 
with policymakers and with those personally 
affected by drugs, we recognise the detrimental 
impact of drug abuse, which not only harms 
individuals but also destabilises families and 
disrupts the workforce. As a conduit between 
the government and the wider community 
on the drug issue, NCADA conducts regular 
studies to find out what the public thinks of 
these issues, and from NCADA National Drug 
Perception Survey 2023, we see that more than 
9 in 10 Singapore residents, both adults and 
youths, agree, too, that maintaining a drug-free 
environment is in the best interest of Singapore.

Of particular concern to NCADA has been 
the trend towards permissiveness adopted 
by a growing number of our youths some 
of whom may have been influenced by the 

Message

misinformation put out by cannabis producers 
through the soft power of pop culture. NCADA’s 
Drug Perception Survey shows that despite the 
harms of cannabis being well-evidenced by 
the medical community, including its potential 
for addiction, about a third of the respondents 
in 2020 felt cannabis was not addictive. This 
highlights the urgent need for proactive 
measures to address the proliferation of drug-
related misinformation and its impact on our 
youth.

NCADA has made significant progress with 
several 
impactful 
initiatives 
to 
engender 

conversations 
with 
our 
youths. 
NCADA’s 

multi-year ‘What’s Your Fix?’ (WYF) campaign, 
developed in collaboration with our strategic 
partner Architects of Life (AOL), came to a 
close in 2023 with a film screening and youth 
dialogue with NCADA members. Through 
meaningful conversations and the sharing of 
lived experiences, the WYF campaign had 
inspired impactful initiatives, including an 
influential documentary series, engaging TikTok 
livestreams, and thought-provoking youth films 
and youth film dialogue event. The campaign 
clinched several media awards including 
the 
Innovation 
Award 
for 
Multi-Platform 

Campaign at the Asia Pacific Broadcasting+ 
Awards and the National Winner (Singapore) 
at Asian Academy of Creative Awards. More 
importantly, the campaign achieved the aim of 
changing mindsets; there was a 30% increase in 
positive attitudes towards the drug-free cause 
among youth post-campaign, emphasising its 
effectiveness in reaching and resonating with 
our youth audience.

Chairman’s

NCADA

A finding in NCADA’s Youth Perception Survey 
2019 indicates that 90.8% of youths whose 
parents had spoken to them about drugs and 
drug abuse reported that those conversations 
have deterred them from taking drugs. This 
research shows that parental influence is found 
to be effective in deterring drug abuse, and 
has positioned us to extend our efforts to work 
with parents in addressing the challenges of 
drug abuse. NCADA is committed to providing 
the necessary resources to support initiatives 
that resonate with and positively impact our 
youth community. Our focus on youths in past 
years has provided us with a firm foundation 
to widen our scope and encompass parents in 
our advocacy efforts in the coming years. The 
DrugFreeSG Fund provides grants to projects 
that focus on raising awareness of preventive 
drug education and fostering a drug-free 
environment. The increase in fund amount in 
the coming year allows NCADA to provide more 
support for worthy community-led ground-up 
initiatives. 

Moving forward, we are committed to building 
networks of influence with parent groups and 
like-minded organisations, leveraging strategic 
partnerships to amplify our impact. Our strategy 
of engendering conversations and building 
advocacy will continue to guide our efforts as we 
strive to create a more informed and supportive 
community. As always, we remain dedicated 
to building capacity and capability within the 
community for the anti-drug cause.

I extend my heartfelt gratitude to our esteemed 
partners, Council Members, and all those 

who have supported us in our mission. I am 
confident that with our collective efforts, we 
will continue to advance our cause and work 
towards a drug-free society. Together, we can 
make a meaningful impact in our community 
and beyond.

As we embark on a new year, we are determined 
to renew our dedication to our anti-drug 
advocacy efforts. As we look ahead, we are 
determined to build upon our achievements 
and expand our efforts to address the evolving 
challenges in the global and local drug 
landscape.

Tan Chong Huat
Vice-Chairman,
National Council Against Drug Abuse

3
Annual Report 2023

4

Mr Hawazi Daipi

Chairman

Singapore’s Non-Resident

Representative to the Palestinian 

Authority & High Commissioner to Ghana

Mr Tan Chong Huat

Vice-Chairman with effect 

from 1 Oct 2023

Senior Partner,

RHTLaw Asia LLP

A/P Narayanan 

Ganapathy

Research Sub-

Committee Lead

Associate Professor of 

Sociology, and Vice-

Dean of Faculty of Arts 

and Social Sciences, 

National University of 

Singapore

Dr Jimmy Lee

Executive 

Committee 

Member, and 

Publicity & 

Communications 

Sub-Committee 

Lead

Senior Consultant,

Institute of Mental 

Health

Members
Council
1 JAN – 31 DEC 2023

Mr Ahmad 

Firdaus Bin Daud

Executive 

Committee Member, 

and Advocacy 

& Community 

Engagement Sub-

Committee Lead

APAC General 

Counsel, Avaya LLC

Ms Elaine Loo

Executive 

Committee Member, 

and Advocacy 

& Community 

Engagement Sub-

Committee Lead

Director, Service 

Strategy & Innovation 

and Service Planning 

& Funding Group, 

National Council of 

Social Service

Mr Ravindran 

Nagalingam

Publicity & 

Communications 

Sub-Committee 

Lead

Chief Operating 

Officer, Bone Marrow 

Donor Programme 

Singapore

Dr Chew Tuan Chiong

Vice-Chairman

Chairman, 

Victoria AM Pte Limited

Mr SB Viknesan

Member (also Member of 

Advocacy & Community 

Engagement Sub-Committee)

Senior Counsellor,

National Addictions 

Management Service (NAMS), 

Institute of Mental Health

A/P Elmie Nekmat

Member

Associate Professor,

Communications and New 

Media; Resident Fellow Ridge 

View Residential College,

National University of 

Singapore

Ms Teo Ser Lee

Member

Founder/Director,

Protocol Academy Pte Ltd

Executive Committee and Sub-Committee Leads

Publicity & Communications Sub-Committee

A/P Thomas Chong

Member

Director Engagement, 

Associate Professor and 

Program Coordinator (Special 

and Inclusive Education), 

Newcastle Australia Institute of 

Higher Education, Singapore

NCADA

Mr Zhulkarnain

Abdul Rahim

Member

Senior Partner,

Dentons Rodyk;

Member of Parliament

of Chua Chu Kang GRC

Mr William Pushpam

Member

Cluster Superintendent 

(Schools Division),

Ministry of Education

Mr Peter Ong

Member

Associate Editor,

Lianhe Zaobao

Dr Tracy Loh

Member

Senior Lecturer,

Lee Kong Chian School of Business, 

Singapore Management University

Dr Alvin Tan

Member

Director, Family 

Intervention / Licensing & 

Sector Regulation, MSF

Mr Patrick Kho

Member

Group Managing 

Director,

Lian Huat Group

Ms V Vyjayanthimala

Member

Deputy Director, Family 

Development Division, 

Singapore Indian 

Development Association 

(SINDA)

Ms Ong Yen Peng

Member

Deputy Director

(Youth & Sports),

People's Association

Mr Hudzaifah

Alyaman Bin Adam

Member

Assistant Vice President,

Commercial Assets & Fund,
Warees Investments Pte Ltd

Ms Tan Chiah Hwee

Member

Director, Community 

Engagement and 

Development, Chinese 

Development Assistance 

Council

Advocacy & Community Engagement Sub-Committee

Ms Azlinah Arif

Member

Deputy Director

School Ready,

Yayasan MENDAKI

Mr Lin Qinghui

Member

Senior Director, Policy

Development Division,

Ministry of Home Affairs

Mr Kesson Lee 

Member

Commissioner for

Narcotics Hong Kong

5
Annual Report 2023

6

Mr Hawazi
Tribute to 

Mr Tan Chong Huat (left), Mr Hawazi Daipi (Center), A/P Muhammad Faishal Ibrahim (right)

NCADA

Mr Hawazi Daipi had served as Vice-Chairman NCADA from 1 Feb 2016 to 31 Dec 2016 and 
as Chairman NCADA from 1 Jan 2017 to 31 Dec 2023. His experience as MP for Marsiling, and 
as member of the National Committee on Prevention, Rehabilitation, and Recidivism meant he 
was very familiar with the drug problem and how the government and the community had to 
work together to address it effectively. He has always been serving the people; as a 4-term MP 
in Sembawang GRC from Dec 1996 to Aug 2015, as the Senior Parliamentary Secretary of MOE 
from May 2011 to Sep 2015 and as the Senior Parliamentary Secretary of MOM from Aug 2004 to 
Sep 2015. As a former MP, he had seen firsthand how drugs destroy lives and families, the reason 
he accepted the invitation to serve in NCADA after retirement. 

During his Chairmanship, several significant initiatives were implemented to advance the mission 
of NCADA. These included the increase of the DrugFreeSG Fund, allowing for increased support 
for community-led ground-up initiatives. Additionally, seminars and engagement opportunities 
were introduced in 2022 to enhance the competencies and communication skills of advocates 
and partners in spreading anti-drug messages. Notable media campaigns such as 'High' and 
'What’s Your Fix?' were also launched, earning recognition and awards, including the prestigious 
Asian Academy Creative Awards and the Asia Pacific Broadcasting+ Awards. Under Mr Hawazi’s 
term, NCADA successfully organised the Asia Pacific Forum Against Drug 2023 event, which will 
henceforth be organised by SANA who will front international relations and engage with overseas 
NGOs to advocate for Singapore. Another significant contribution was NCADA's corporate retreat 
held on 19 Nov 2022, providing a platform to discuss work priorities and foster better mutual 
understanding among NCADA members. 

On behalf of NCADA, thank you for your exemplary leadership & numerous contributions, and 
may you always enjoy good health, Mr Hawazi!

7
Annual Report 2023

8

Ignite Conversations,
Foster Understanding

NCADA

NCADA officially launched What’s Your 
Fix? - our 2022-2023 media campaign in 
September 2022. The campaign sought to 
lead young people into conversation, to 
find out if there is truth behind the stories 
of drug abuse. In 2023, the campaign rolled 
out in three phases.

To set the first phase in motion, a 3-part 
docuseries titled What’s Your Fix?: On the 
Mend was launched across different social 
media platforms on 26 July. The series 
shed light on real-life accounts of young 
individuals whose lives had been affected 
with addiction. Several issues were explored, 
such as the cost of being indifferent towards 
drug abuse and the consideration for the 

Campaign
What’s Your Fix?

What’s Your Fix? Youth Film Programme

costs shouldered by unseen victims of drug abuse. On the Mend was also amplified through 
contests on social media to unpack and expand conversations on issues reflected in each episode. 

Following the release of the docuseries, the campaign cast an open callout to empower young 
people to advocate for the drug-free cause through film and content co-creation. In phase two, 
young content creators and filmmakers aged 35 and below were invited to submit their creative 
ideas for a short film related to different drug abuse related themes.  Three winners were offered 
production grants of up to $15,000 each, and a Youth Film Programme was developed to bring 
their concepts to life. They received mentorship from experienced professional filmmakers and 
Viddsee Studios.  NCADA worked with our campaign community partner, the Architects of Life 
(AOL), to enrich the programme with a drug-free advocacy component as well. This allowed the 
content creators to directly interact with former youth drug abusers to build their appreciation 
for the challenges of drug addiction. This helped to bring firsthand experiences to screen. Three 
films were produced through the Youth Film Programme, and they covered a myriad of topics 
pertaining to drug abuse such as the role a family plays in the prevention of drug abuse, the 
impact of normalising drug abuse, and what youths can do when their friends are considering 
experimenting with drugs.

9
Annual Report 2023

10

The final phase was titled What’s Your Fix? 
Presents: Youth Film Dialogue. NCADA 
organised a dialogue to engage about 100 
participants on the urgency of issues pertaining 
to drug abuse, and their relevance to the 
youths in Singapore. This event was held on 22 
September 2023, and it offered a platform for 
youths to express their views and sentiments 
on the subject, and to lend their voice to the 
nation’s drug conversation. 

NCADA’s intent for the What’s Your Fix? 
campaign, 
through 
co-creation 
and 

conversation, was to inspire youths to become 
advocates against drug abuse. 

For more information on the What’s Your Fix? 
campaign, visit
https://whatsyourfix.sg

What’s Your Fix? Presents: Youth Film Dialogue
on 22 September 2023 
On The Mend Docuseries

NCADA

Working together to achieve a Drug-Free Vision
Asia Pacific Forum Against Drugs 2023:

The 
National 
Council 

Against 
Drug 
Abuse 

(NCADA) 
and 
the 

Singapore Anti-Narcotics 
Association (SANA) co-
organised the Asia Pacific 
Forum 
Against 
Drugs 

(APFAD) 2023 on 26 May 
2023, to encourage local 
and foreign delegates to 
network and engage in 
comprehensive discussions 
on drug-related issues and 
how anti-drug efforts are 
sustained 
through 
local 

community action. 

The forum was established 
in 2015.  APFAD 2023 
is part of NCADA and 

APFAD GOH and Forum Speakers (From left to right):
DAC Karen Lee (SPS), Mr Rogers Kasirye (WFAD), Ms Nur Azlinda Binte Zulkifli, 
Minister of State for Home Affairs and for National Development A/P Muhammad 
Faishal Ibrahim, Dr Chew Tuan Chiong (VCM NCADA), Minister for Communications 
and Information & Second Minister for Home Affairs Mrs Josephine Teo, Mr Kaka 
Singh (VP SANA), Mr Simon Khung, Dr Sandor Heng, Mr Augusto Nogueira (IFNGO).

SANA’s efforts to spur collective ownership of the drug-free vision, and to mobilise the region for 
the drug-free cause. It was also the first since Singapore’s successful election to the United Nations 
Commission on Narcotics Drugs announced in April 2023. The regional forum, hosted in Singapore, 
is a testament to Singapore’s vision to build a drug-free community and reaffirms our commitment to 
work with regional non-governmental organisations (NGOs) to play our part to address the world’s 
drug problem. 

Themed “From Prevention to Aftercare – Integrated Community Action for a Drug-Free Society”, 
APFAD 2023 served to rally local and regional anti-drug advocates and NGOs to discuss holistic harm 
prevention and aftercare approaches to better address the complex and increasingly challenging 
drug problem. The forum emphasised the importance of adopting a whole-of-society approach to 
drug prevention, featuring speakers who were practitioners, medical professionals, as well as peer 
leaders from the ex-abuser community. 

11
Annual Report 2023

12

Mrs Josephine Teo, Minister for Communications 
and Information & Second Minister for Home 
Affairs, was the Guest-of Honour at this Forum. 
In her opening remarks, she underscored 
the importance of collaboration amongst 
NGOs and governments to combat the tide of 
misinformation about drug use in the face of a 
worsening global drug situation. 

Global leaders, including Mr Rogers Kasirye, 
Vice President of the World Federation Against 
Drugs (WFAD), and Mr Augusto Nogueira, 
President of the International Federation of Non-
Governmental Organisations for the Prevention 
of Drug and Substance Abuse, shared their 
insights on the opportunities to engage 
communities towards the development of best 
practices for drug prevention and intervention 
approaches. 

The forum concluded with delegates signing 
the APFAD Declaration, which represents the 
voices of NGOs that firmly advocate a drug-
free agenda. Delegates signed the declaration 
to renew their commitment to take a proactive 
stand against the normalisation of drug abuse in 
theor respective cultures.

Signing of APFAD Declaration

NCADA

Supporting Partners, 
Building Advocacy
Supporting Partners,
Building Advocacy

13
Annual Report 2023

14

NCADA believes that cultivating partnerships and implementing advocacy initiatives are 
instrumental in advancing our mission for a drug-free society. Additionally, by leveraging 
the DrugFreeSG grant and publicising our monthly DrugFreeSG Advocacy Newsletter, we 
have enabled advocates to amplify anti-drug messages and initiatives, fostering a collective 
movement towards a drug-free Singapore.

NCADA Members in Action

On 21 June 2023, Vice-Chairman of NCADA,
Dr Chew Tuan Chiong, led an engaging 
question & answer (Q&A) session with the 
Research and Data Division of the Ministry of 
Communications and Information (MCI). The 
two-hour session focused on gaining insights 
into the perspectives of the younger generation 
regarding drug-related issues and policies. 
The questions posed during the session aimed 
to capture the thoughts and concerns of the 
younger demographic, which may provide 
valuable input for future policy considerations 
and initiatives.

On 14 Nov 2023, Vice-Chairman of NCADA, 
Mr Tan, organised the Asia Golf Convention, 
where one of NCADA council members, Mr 
Viknesan, participated as a panel speaker on the 
subject of Singapore’s approach to advancing 
clean sport. The engagement not only served 
to raise awareness about the significance of 
addressing drug addiction and its detrimental 
effects but also aimed to mobilise parents and 
industry leaders to understand the importance 
of intervention and their role in addressing the 
increasing exposure to drug-related content in 
today's society. The convention highlighted the 
collective commitment to fostering a culture of 
clean and drug-free sports, emphasising the 
responsibility of all stakeholders in upholding 
the integrity of sports.

Dr Chew led a two-hour-long sharing and Q&A 
session with MCI’s Research and Data Division.

Mr Viknesan (second from right) as Panel Speaker on 
“Singapore’s Approach to Advancing Clean Sport” on 
14 Nov 2023.

NCADA

Our Advocates

To nurture our advocates, we have 
regular training sessions, where we share 
an overview of our volunteer scheme, 
outlining the ways in which volunteers 
can 
make 
meaningful 
contributions, 

and emphasising the code of conduct 
for 
volunteers. 
Officers 
from 
CNB’s 

Enforcement Division and an ex-abuser 
would also share their insights. The session 
covers various topics, including strategies 
for volunteers to engage with youths to 
deter drug use, as well as the complex issue 
of drug legalisation in other countries.

Training session for our volunteers held on 21 Aug 2023 
at CNB.

Our Advocates
Nurturing 

DrugFreeSG Advocacy Newsletter

The DrugFreeSG Advocacy 
Newsletter 
continues 
to 

serve as a vital monthly 
e-newsletter circulated to 
our advocates, partners, 
and supporters dedicated 
to the anti-drug cause. 
This collaborative effort by 
NCADA and CNB features 
updates 
on 
anti-drug 

events, along with insightful 
articles and case studies 
to keep readers informed 
about the evolving drug 

landscape in Singapore and abroad. Additionally, the newsletter provides details about upcoming 
events that advocates can actively support and participate in. It also showcases the contributions of 
advocates, offering inspiring stories of how individuals have played their part in promoting a drug-
free Singapore.

15
Annual Report 2023

16

NCADA

The DrugFreeSG Grant
Supporting Advocacy: 

DFSG Grant

The DrugFreeSG Grant supports ground-up initiatives that focus on raising awareness of preventive 
drug education, enhancing individual and community resilience, and fostering a drug-free 
environment. Administered by NCADA on behalf of the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Fund accepts 
grant applications throughout the year.

DFSG Recipient: Nanyang Technological University,
Cultural Activities Club, Dragon & Lion Dance 

The NTU Institutional Lion Dance Competition, organised by the NTU CAC DLD, has been an annual 
tradition since 2000. Leveraging the platform provided by NTU CAC DLD, the competition served as 
a means to engage the Chinese community of youths, parents, supporters, friends, and individuals 
interested in Chinese arts, culture, and heritage. The event, which took place on 26 March 2023 at 
West Coast Community Centre, aimed to raise awareness about the perils of drug abuse, featuring 
a special Lion Dance performance with a tailored anti-drug message created specifically for the 
occasion. Vice-Chairman of NCADA, Dr Chew Tuan Chiong, also extended his support for the event 
by attending and highlighting the importance of promoting a drug-free lifestyle within the community. 
The event encompassed a Preventive Drug Education (PDE) Exhibition Panel, two distinctive PDE 
performances, and the inclusion of PDE messages within the Guest of Honor's speech, delivered 
by Second Minister of Education, Dr Maliki Osman. These features collectively contributed to the 
event's success in promoting the message of drug abuse prevention within the community.

17
Annual Report 2023

18

DFSG Recipient: Pertapis 

Pertapis Halfway House organised a futsal 
competition titled ‘Kick The Habit’ on 18 June 
2023, in conjunction with World Drug-Free Day, 
where they united to break free from the chains 
of drug addiction and embrace a life of strength, 
resilience, and positivity. The community 
outreach event, held at Futsal Arena Yishun, 
featured futsal as a healthy sporting activity 
for participants to be engaged in. The event, 
graced by Minister of State, Ministry of Home 
Affairs and Ministry of National Development 
Associate 
Professor 
Muhammad 
Faishal 

Ibrahim, served as a powerful platform to raise 

awareness about the importance of overcoming 
addiction and leading a healthy, drug-free life.

At the sidelines of the futsal competition, 
there was a PDE Exhibition by the Community 
Partnership Unit, CNB that engaged the youth 
participants, their friends, family members and 
members of the public who came to watch, 
support and cheer for the teams. It was a fun 
and wholesome activity for all futsal enthusiasts 
and a great bonding time with family and friends 
while learning more about the dangers of drugs.

NCADA

Reflecting on the events and 
programmes that NCADA has 
organised and supported in 2023, 
we wish to express our sincere 
appreciation to all those who have 
been involved. We are deeply 
encouraged by the unwavering 
support and dedication of our 
partners 
and 
counterparts 
in 

contributing to a #DrugFreeSG. 
NCADA 
remains 
committed 

to our role as the lead citizen’s 
advisory council to the Ministry 
of Home Affairs on preventive 
drug measures and programs 
in Singapore. We will continue 
to work tirelessly to rally the 
community towards our shared 
objective of creating a drug-free 
Singapore!

Moving Forward

NCADA expresses our appreciation to

Council Members Mdm Yee Siaw Ling and

Mr Tan Yap Kin who have stepped down in 2023. 

We also extend a warm welcome to our new 

members Dr Alvin Tan and Ms Tan Chiah Hwee 

whose expertise and dedication will undoubtedly 

enhance our collective efforts in promoting a 

drug-free Singapore.

Last but not least, we thank the organisations 

and individuals who have collaborated with and 

supported NCADA events throughout 2023

and look forward to another year of

collaboration for a drug-free Singapore

in 2024.

Acknowledgements

Volunteers, Supporters and Friends

•	
All Anti-drug Abuse Advocacy Network (A3) Advocates

•	
United Against Drug Coalition (UADC) – Organisation

Organisations and Project Partners

•	
Singapore Anti-Narcotics Association

•	
National Addictions Management Service, Institute of 
Mental Health

•	
Architects of Life 

•	
NTU Cultural Activities Club, Dragon & Lion Dance 
Troupe 

•	
An-Nur Mosque

•	
Pertapis Halfway House

•	
And all local and international partners and supporters

Singapore Government Ministries, 
Departments and Statutory Boards

•	
Associate Professor Muhammad Faishal 
Ibrahim, Minister of State for Home Affairs 
and National Development

•	
Ministry of Home Affairs

•	
Ministry of Education

•	
Ministry Social and Family Development

•	
Central Narcotics Bureau

•	
Singapore Prison Service

•	
People’s Association

•	
Chinese Development Assistance Council

•	
Yayasan MENDAKI

•	
Singapore Indian Development Association

Acknowledgements

19
Annual Report 2023

National Council Against Drug Abuse
UEN: S95CC1096G

www.ncada.org.sg

ncadasg

ncadasg

