START TALKING BEFORE 
THEY START TAKING

DRUG-FREE
DRUG-FREE

GROWING UP
GROWING UP

A PREVENTIVE DRUG EDUCATION INFORMATION HANDBOOK FOR PARENTS

Contents

2	
Foreword

3	
The Youth Drug Abuse Landscape

	
•	Global influences that undermine our youths

	
•	Why do youths abuse drugs?

	
•	Today’s youth abusers in Singapore

10	 How Parents can Protect their Children 
from Drugs

	
•	Parenting tips to build healthy relationships

	
•	How can parents prevent youths from 	
	

	 abusing drugs and inhalants?

	
•	Teaching children to refuse drugs

	
•	Warning signs of a potential drug problem

17	 The Facts
	
•	Drug facts

	
•	Drug laws

27	 Youth Drug Rehabilitation Options
29	 Resources
	
•	Parenting books on drug abuse @ NLB

	
•	Resources & helplines

DRUG-FREE
GROWING UP

Foreword

Dear Parent,

The Central Narcotics Bureau (CNB) has produced this Handbook to share information 
about drugs and drug abuse with parents. Singapore is relatively drug-free, where we 
do not see drug pushers or addicts on streets. This safe environment is what we need 
to protect and safeguard, so that our children can study and play safely in schools and 
public spaces.

While the drug situation in Singapore remains under control, CNB has observed 
an increase in the number of youth drug abusers (below age 20) arrested in recent 
years, and the majority of them were new abusers. In 2015, among the youth abusers, 
students made up the largest proportion. We have also observed a changing profile 
of youth abusers, in particular cannabis abusers, who are now more ethnically diverse, 
and come from stable, middle class families. This trend of younger new abusers is of 
concern and we are monitoring it closely.

We also note that many overseas pro-drug lobbies are pushing to legalise or 
decriminalise drugs use. It is promoting the misleading message that “Cannabis is 
harmless”. Views espoused online by some international celebrities – where drug 
abuse is shown as being “cool” or “just recreational”, also erode the resistance of our 
young people towards drugs abuse.

Children have many role models – parents, teachers, friends, movie and sports stars, to 
name a few. Much of a child’s beliefs is formed by what he is first taught at home and 
then tested against other role models later. As a parent, you play an important role in 
engaging and guiding your child to lead drug-free and healthy lifestyles. It is important 
for parents to know about drugs and inhalants and its harmful consequences, so that 
you can talk to your child and guide your child to stay away from drugs and inhalants.

This Handbook aims to empower you with the relevant preventive drug education 
knowledge, to identify tell-tale signs of drug abuse and some parenting tips to engage 
your child in conversations on drug abuse. Never assume that your child should have 
known better. Engage them early before they start experimenting with drugs.

Be the Anti-Drug Champion in your home. Let us work together to guide our children 
to embrace a drug-free lifestyle.

Mr Ng Ser Song 
Director 
Central Narcotics Bureau

3
 

THE YOUTH

DRUG ABUSE

Globalisation has brought about many benefits and influences 
to Singapore. We are now in the digital age and Singaporean 
youths are highly connected to the world. What has this got 
to do with drug abuse? What are the worrying global drug 
trends parents should know?

LANDSCAPE

4
 

LEGALISATION OF CANNABIS 
OVERSEAS

Some countries have legalised cannabis or 
‘marijuana’ for ‘medical’ and/or recreational 
use. Proponents will argue that it is a 
‘soft’ drug with medicinal properties and 
legalisation will help to reduce the costs 
of enforcement and incarceration, as well 
as create jobs to improve the economy in 
their countries. The legalisation of the drug 
overseas may influence youths into thinking 
that cannabis is not harmful or addictive at all, 
and that other countries should follow suit.

Common Thoughts Of Youths

Here are some opinions of Singaporean 
youths on drugs and drug abuse.

“The government is against drugs 
because it’s strict and backward.”

“If cannabis is legal overseas, it can’t 
be harmful!”

“I’ve seen people eat space cakes.  
I want to try it too.”

“Even foreign politicians are 
advocating for legalisation of 
cannabis!”

Let your children know that:

•	 Cannabis abuse increases the 
risk of cognitive impairment, 
mental illness and decline in IQ, 
particularly for youths^.

•	 There is only moderate evidence 
of the drug being able to ease a 
small number of conditions –such as 
chemotherapy induced nausea and 
chronic pain – for such conditions, 
other legal treatment options are 
available and there is no need to resort 
to using illegal substances.

•	 Cannabis is definitely not a miracle or a 
cancer saving drug which its abusers try 
to portray on the Internet. No medical 
practitioner will recommend smoking it 
for medicinal use^.

•	 Cannabis legalisation will raise more 
problems. In Netherlands, a cannabis-
tolerant country, the city of Amsterdam 
is witnessing the impact of students 
turning up ‘stoned’ in class because 
of easy access to the drug and their 
relaxed drug laws*. In the long term, 
cannabis legalisation will create 
more health problems for the drug 
users and take a toll on a country’s 
healthcare system and costs. These are 
consequences which people tend to 
overlook when they soften their views 
on cannabis or other drugs.

^ A Literature Review on Medical Cannabis. (2015). Institute of Mental 
Health Singapore. 

* Amsterdam to impose ban on smoking cannabis on school property. 
(2012, November 12). The Guardian. Retrieved October 20, 2016,  
from https://www.theguardian.com/world/2012/dec/12/amsterdam-ban-
cannabis-school-playground-marijuana

GLOBAL INFLUENCES THAT UNDERMINE OUR YOUTHS

5
 

EXPLICIT DRUG ABUSE IN POP CULTURE

Youths’ views on drugs can be swayed at a 
young age when they are exposed to films 
and songs with the drug theme, particularly 
those that portray drug abuse as fun or 
a norm in society, or explicitly encourage 
drug-taking. These include movies such as 
Ted and TV shows such as Breaking Bad.
In reality, celebrities may also glamourise 
a drug-taking lifestyle to generate stories. 
Photos and videos of celebrities such 
as Rihanna, Snoop Dogg and Cypress 
Hill promoting drug-taking lifestyles are 
circulated widely on social media. Youths 
may hence be led into thinking that drug 
abuse has no bearings on one’s ability to 
succeed in life.

INFLUENCE FROM INTERNET AND 
SOCIAL MEDIA

Online media can play a large part in 
increasing youths’ curiosity about drugs, 
as they spend a lot of time on the Internet 
and social media platforms like Facebook 
and Instagram. Youths can be influenced 
by what they read online, especially on 
platforms that promote drug abuse as 
“normal and acceptable” behaviour.

“If Snoop’s lighting 
up, why can’t I?”

“Rihanna posts photos of 
her smoking weed and she 
doesn’t look unhealthy!”

“Cypress Hill says it’s 
cool to smoke weed and 
it should be legalised. 
Maybe it’s true…”

“We are the new Americana, high on  
legal marijuana” – 2015 song lyric 
(New Americana by Halsey)

“Always tryna send me off to rehab,  
Drugs started feelin’ like it’s decaf.” –  
2015 song lyric (The Hills by The Weeknd)

Celebrities Who Have Died 
Due to Drug Overdose

Marilyn Monroe, Whitney Houston, 
Cory Monteith, Philip Seymour 
Hoffman, Amy Winehouse. These 
stars destroyed their brilliant futures 
for the sake of a short-lived thrill of 
drug abuse.

What Parents Can Do

•	 Let your children know that drug 
abuse is a much more prevalent 
problem in other countries to the 
extent that it may have already 
grown out of hand. They may have 
no other option but to adopt a 
softer stance. This does not mean 
Singapore should just follow suit and 
accept drug-taking as a way of life.

•	 Arguments put forth in social media 
are also often lopsided, and you should 
remind youths to read them with 
caution and exercise critical thinking.

What Parents Can Do

•	 You should not undermine the 
influence that pop culture and 
celebrities have on your children and 
should pay attention when they mimic 
their idol’s controversial behaviours.

•	 Let your children know that behind 
the glamour, drug abuse has 
destroyed the lives of many, and even 
caused a number of celebrities to die 
from overdose.

6
 

YOUTHS ABUSING ‘PARTY DRUGS’ AT 
OVERSEAS MUSIC FESTIVALS

‘Raves’, or Music Festivals are large-scale 
events that feature DJs who play ‘techno’ 
or ‘house’ music. These are popular events 
among youths, who will even buy air tickets 
to attend them for all-night music and 
dance. There have been a few cases of 
drug-related arrests at such events, with 
some resulting in drug overdose and deaths 
in countries close to Singapore.

What are ‘Party Drugs’?
These are illegal substances abused at 
dance clubs, concerts, and parties.  
Some of these drugs are:

• MDMA or ‘Ecstasy’

• Ketamine

• Methamphetamine or ‘Ice’

• New Psychoactive Substances (NPS)

• Lysergide (LSD) or ‘Acid’

Why do youths abuse them?

These drugs can cause the abusers to 
feel an energy rush, thus enabling them 
to dance for hours without fatigue. The 
abusers will also hallucinate and experience 
euphoria. However, these often result in 
changes to their mood, consciousness and 
behaviour, and losing control of themselves.

^ The Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) had issued an advisory on 19 Oct 2016 advising Singaporeans to exercise due care and personal responsibility when 
travelling overseas, including respecting and abiding by local laws and regulations relating to drug-related offences. 

https://www.mfa.gov.sg/content/mfa/consular_information/for_singapore_citizens/travel_notices/2016/201510/travelnotice_20161019.html.

What Parents Can Do

•	 Be cautious when your children 
frequent places where these drugs 
are typically abused.

•	 Remind them that even if the drug 
was abused overseas, the abuser 
will still be arrested upon detection 
in Singapore. It is also not wise to 
run afoul of the law as a foreigner 
and be jailed overseas for drug 
consumption^.

7
 

We asked the youth abusers why they took drugs. Here’s some of their reasons:

WHY DO YOUTHS EXPERIMENT WITH DRUGS? 

Just for fun

wanted to know the 
feeling of ‘high’
forget about problems

I wanted to 
lose weight

my friends asked me  
to try drugs

relieve stress

I was bored

I wanted to 
fit in and win 
friendships with 
the cool group

IN-DEPTH STUDY ON YOUTH DRUG ABUSERS

The Task Force on Youths and Drugs commissioned a research team of psychologists 
from the Home Team to conduct an in-depth study on drug abusers. The study was 
conducted from December 2014 to April 2015.

Methodology
700 participants aged 12 to 29 years, comprising 237 abusers and 463 non-abusers were 
surveyed in the study. Participants completed a questionnaire that measured the risk and 
protective factors of drug abuse and their perceptions towards preventive education. 
The team also conducted individual case history interviews and group discussions for an 
in-depth understanding.

WHY DO YOUTHS ABUSE DRUGS?

8
 

POSSIBLE RISK FACTORS THAT CONTRIBUTE TO 
DRUG AND INHALANT ABUSE

Youths have mentioned varied reasons for abusing drugs and/or inhalants.  
Here are some common ones.

PEER INFLUENCE
There is a strong need for friendship and 
group identification among adolescents. 
Youths may give in to negative peer 
influence and take drugs to bond and 
remain with their group of friends who 
take drugs.

CURIOSITY
Youths’ natural curiosity often entice 
them to experiment with new things. 
The tendency to try drugs increases 
when they are collectively curious as a 
group and think less of the individual 
consequences.

BOREDOM
Many youths do not have meaningful 
activities to occupy themselves. Boredom 
and idleness may lead to drug and 
inhalant abuse.

POOR COPING SKILLS
Some youths may have unhappy 
experiences at home or in school. 
Conflicts with parents, poor school 
performance and poor relationships 

with schoolmates are some examples. 
These may cause feelings of frustration, 
anxiety, depression, hopelessness or 
worthlessness. The inability to cope with 
such emotions could lead to drug and 
inhalant abuse as a way of escape.

LACK OF PARENTAL GUIDANCE
There may be little or no parental 
supervision at home. Hence, they 
become vulnerable to negative 
influences.

FAMILY DRUG HISTORY
Parents or caregivers with drug history 
can negatively impact the way children 
feel about drugs. An addiction problem 
within the family can lead to youths 
wanting to experiment with drugs.

AVAILABILITY OF SUBSTANCES 
(INHALANT ABUSE)
Many inhalant products such as glue 
and paint thinner are easily available 
at home or in shops at low costs. Most 
are conveniently packaged to be easily 
concealed and carried around.

9
 

TODAY’S YOUTH ABUSERS IN SINGAPORE

CASE STUDY: 17 years old, Chinese, Male

(includes repeat & new abusers)

The Central Narcotics Bureau (CNB) arrested a total of 3,343 drug abusers in 2015, an 
increase of 6% from the 3,158 drug abusers arrested in 2014. The number of repeat 
abusers remained at slightly more than 2,000 although there was a 2% fall. In 2015, 1,309 
new drug abusers were arrested, a 20% increase from the 1,093 arrested in 2014.

Arrested based on information received by CNB and was part of a 
drug cluster involving young persons.

3,343 abusers

YEAR  
2015
YEAR  
2014

3,158 abusers

1,309 new abusers

1,093 new abusers

NEW ABUSERS BY DRUG TYPE
Cannabis is the second most-abused  
drug among new abusers, after new 
methamphetamine abusers.

NEW ABUSERS BY AGE
Nearly seventy per cent of new abusers 
are below 30 years of age.

CANNABIS

OTHERS 
(including ‘Ecstasy’, ketamine, 
nimetazepam, cocaine, NPS)

METHAMPHETAMINE
‘ICE’

HEROIN

12%

2%

77%

9%

Below  
age of 30
Age 30 
and above

69%
31%

I knew about cannabis from a friend who introduced me to it. Before he introduced 
it to me, I already knew that cannabis is not as bad as taking ‘Ice’ or other synthetic 
drugs because of the exposure to media and all that. After he introduced me, I 
tried to find out more about cannabis from the Internet, like what the 
methods to consume are and how to stop using too.

Typical family with 
good parental support 
and no drug or criminal 
history. Parents did not 
smoke or drink.

Average student in 
school. He did not 
have disciplinary 
issues and had full 
attendance for classes.

Started smoking in Sec 1 
and was introduced by 
peers. He was exposed 
to the media and used the 
Internet to find out more.

10
 

Talk to your child, and never assume that your child would know better.

Youths who have healthy relationships and are involved in meaningful activities are 
less likely to abuse drugs. In order to help your children stay drug-free, you will need 
to guide them to build strong and healthy relationships with their family members 
and peers. Being a role model and raising their mental resilience to cope with life’s 
challenges is also important. All these start with you.

PARENTING TIPS TO BUILD  
HEALTHY RELATIONSHIPS

HELP YOUR CHILDREN FEEL GOOD 
ABOUT THEMSELVES

You can build better relationships with your 
children by raising their self-esteem. You can:

•	Offer praise and encouragement

•	Show affection

•	Be there for them in times of need

•	Engage them in conversation regularly 	

to understand them better

•	Give them responsibility to make them 
feel valued and respected

I’m proud of  
you son for staying 
away from those 
drug-abusing 
classmates

Don’t worry 
Dad, I know 
what I should  
be doing

11
 

FIND COMMON INTERESTS

Find a common area of interest with your 
child. It may be a sport, game or music 
activity. Spending time together in an 
activity will not only help your child spend 
his/her time meaningfully but also promote 
parent-child bonding.

DISCOVER YOUR CHILD’S TALENTS
Help your child discover what he/she is 
good at. Encourage your child to pursue 
further in his/her interests and develop a 
passion in life.

MANAGING TEENAGE DELINQUENTS
• 	Parents who require professional 
assistance to improve parent-child 
relationship can call, walk in or email the 
Family Service Centres (FSCs) for help.

•	 For more information, 
visit Ministry of Social 
and Family Development 
(MSF)’s website at  
https://app.msf.gov.sg/Policies/ 
Strong-and-Stable-Families/Supporting- 
Families/Family-Service-Centres.

IMPART COPING SKILLS
Some youths are unable to cope with 
strong emotions. Pay attention to your 
child when he/she shows extreme 
frustration, sadness, anxiety or other 
extreme emotions. Teach your child to 
manage their emotions and relieve stress 
by setting aside time for sports or other 
healthy activities.

OPEN COMMUNICATION
Listen to what your child has to say. Select 
a comfortable setting, keep an open mind 
and avoid a confrontational approach, 
especially when discussing sensitive issues. 

12
 

HOW CAN PARENTS PREVENT YOUTHS FROM 
ABUSING DRUGS AND INHALANTS?

Parents need to know about drugs and the related issues to help children stay 
drug-free, through discussions and talks at home. The following are some ways 
to help children stay clear of drug abuse.

BE A ROLE MODEL
Every word, movement and action from 
a parent will have an effect on the child. 
A child will more likely follow his parents’ 
behaviour than merely do what they say. 
Parents who use alcohol and tobacco 
to relieve stress can send the wrong 
message to children and lead them 
into thinking that substance use is not 
harmful. Evaluate how you would like your 
child to cope with the challenges in life 
and do the same yourself.

CREATE A TRIGGER-FREE 
ENVIRONMENT
Make your home a safe place for young 
children by keeping alcohol, cigarettes 
and prescription drugs out of sight.  
It should not be a norm to see such 
items lying around the house. Do not  
use substances in the presence of  
your children.

TEACH YOUTHS FACTS ABOUT 
DRUGS AND INHALANTS
Know the facts (see section on Drug 
Facts) and provide balanced views. Help 
your child understand why youths turn 
to drugs and how drug abuse will ruin 
their lives in the long run. Talk calmly and 
openly without exaggeration. Use terms 
that the youths would understand. For 
example, tell them that they “may need 
to spend every single day in life searching 
for drugs” to drive home the message  
of addiction.

You do not have to raise the topic out 
of the blue. Use “teachable” moments 
to start the conversation. Tragedies 
arising from drug abuse in this world are 
reported in the media from time to time, 
and provide a good opportunity. 
Drug abuse is an expensive habit, and 
drug dealers know it is best to target 
the young when their mindsets are still 
vulnerable. Help your child learn that 
drugs can be offered for free in the 
beginning, but the pusher will want 
something in return eventually – be it 
cash, trade, or sex. Drug dealers do not 
run charities.

TEACH YOUTHS TO SAY ‘NO’  
TO DRUGS
Let your child know drug abuse is not 
a norm in Singapore, and it is perfectly 
alright to be assertive in refusing drugs 
(see section on Teaching Children to 
Refuse Drugs). When offered drugs, 
your child should leave the situation and 
inform you.

ADDRESS PEER PRESSURE
Talk to your child about choosing friends 
and emphasise that drug abuse is not the 
right way to fit in. Suggest for them to 
join healthy group activities to widen their 
circle and boost self-esteem.

OBSERVE THEIR ACTIVITIES
Be aware of their activities. Sudden 
change in friends, behaviour or interests 
could indicate problems. 

13
 

TEACHING CHILDREN TO REFUSE DRUGS

DRUGS ARE NOT COOL, IT WILL DESTROY YOUR IMAGE
Drug abuse tends to take a toll on the abuser’s body and affect a healthy appearance. Your 
child can say “I prefer to look and stay healthy. Drugs will affect my physical appearance.”

MAKE A JOKE
Sometimes humour can lighten a serious mood and divert attention elsewhere. For 
example, your child can “joke” that you do not give him enough money to spend on 
drugs.

“I can’t even buy enough food with the money my parents give me!”

BE PREPARED TO SAY ‘NO’
If you know your child may encounter bad influences in school,  
have him/her prepare ready reasons to say “NO”. 
Saying “NO” firmly discourages future offers.

“That’s illegal. I don’t want to get into trouble.”

“Sorry. I don’t want to end up in jail.”

“It’s dumb to take drugs to prove that  
you are something.”.

NO TIME FOR DRUGS
Your child can give a disappointed facial  
expression that the person offering drugs is 
wasting his/her time.

IGNORE THE SUGGESTION/ 
CHANGE THE SUBJECT
Your child can pretend not to hear the suggestion 
and change the topic. Act like the matter is not 
even worth discussing.

Most youths start out in life wanting to stay off drugs. Many however stumble into abuse 
simply because they are unsure of how to respond when offered drugs. They are afraid of 
losing a friend, looking uncool, or being left out. Teaching them to say “no” in different 
ways prepares them for several possible scenarios. 

By learning a range of possible responses, youths are more likely to be able to give the 
best response when the time arises. You can role play with your child and practise the 
following responses.

NO!

Saying “no!” 
firmly 
discourages 
future offers.

14
 

BE BOLD AND SIMPLY SAY ‘NO’
In some situations, simply saying no without arguing and explaining is the best 
response. Your child has to make sure the “NO” is a strong and determined one. 
Be polite, but if it does not work, use a strong and assertive tone of voice. Make 
sure the person offering drugs understands that your child is serious about the 
refusal. Body language communicates better than words in such situations.

“NO, thanks. I don’t do drugs.”

“Sorry. Sniffing glue isn’t for me.”

“NO, thanks. I’m cool the way I am.”

“Are you kidding? Why would I want to do something so dumb?”

“NO, thanks. I don’t want to ruin my life.”

AVOID THE SITUATION
Teach your child to evaluate invitations to outings and avoid situations where  
he/she knows that people will be abusing drugs or sniffing glue. It helps if  
your child knows who will be attending the outing and whether there will be  
undesirable friends.

Avoid situations 
where you know 
people will be 
abusing drugs

15
 

LEAVE THE SITUATION
When caught in the situation, your child can say something funny to get out 
of it if the atmosphere is friendly. If the person offering drugs gets pushy, your 
child should turn assertive and leave. It may seem risky, but by leading the way, 
other friends may just follow him/her too.

“I have to go now. I have an appointment.”

THE POWER OF NUMBERS
Your child can count on his/her closer friends to say ‘NO’ together. When 
caught in the situation, teach your child to stay close with his/her friends and 
back each other up in refusing the drug.

SUGGEST AN ALTERNATIVE ACTIVITY
Many youths wind up doing things they should not because they lack options. 
Your child can suggest an alternative activity and offer everyone in the situation 
an exit.

“How about we go bowling? Or let’s watch a movie instead?” 

By suggesting 
another activity, 
you’re offering 
everyone an exit

16
 

WARNING SIGNS OF A POTENTIAL  
DRUG PROBLEM

Here are some warning signs of a potential drug problem that a parent should 
watch out for. Parents should know their children best. If you feel something is  
not right, it probably is not. 

BEHAVIOURAL SIGNS
• 	 Unexplained absenteeism or decline in 
school grades
• 	 Sudden changes in circle of friends
• 	 Extreme emotions or mood swings
• 	 Less openness or honesty

 

PHYSICAL SIGNS
• 	 Abnormal health issues
• 	 Chronic fatigue or abnormal  
sleeping patterns
• 	 Poor body coordination
•	 Symptoms such as bloodshot eyes or 
runny nose

ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS
• 	 Unusual containers or wrappers that 
resemble drug paraphernalia
• 	 Unusual smells from clothing or breath
• 	 Missing money or valuables at home
•	 Secretive phone calls or messages

17
 

When Snow White isn’t just a fairy tale character but a name for an illegal drug, it’s 
worrying what else you may not know. As a parent, it’s important to understand  
the facts about commonly abused drugs and substances, to communicate with your 
child and to inform them of the risks and harms associated with illegal substances.  
The following information will help you understand the various types of drugs there are, 
what they look like and the kind of effect it has.

Cannabis comes from the plant genus Cannabis and contains the 
chemical Tetrahydrocannabinol which induces mood heightening. 
Abusing cannabis can lead to addiction and subsequently to other 
drugs such as heroin and methamphetamine.

Effects

• 	 Inability to concentrate

• 	 Slow reaction

•	 Distorted thinking and perception

• 	 Poor balance and co-ordination

• 	 Anxiety, depression, confusion and 
paranoia

• 	 Drop in IQ, impaired memory

• 	 Altered senses and altered 
sense of time

• 	 Schizophrenia

Withdrawal Symptoms

• 	 Moodiness

• 	 Irritability

• 	 Anxiety

• 	 Tension

1
Cannabis    
(also known as Marijuana, Weed, Grass, Pot, 
Ganja, Hashish, joints)

Drug
Facts

The Facts:

18
 

Methamphetamine usually comes in the form of a colourless and odourless crystal 
that resembles glass fragments or shiny blue-white “rocks” of various sizes. 
Methamphetamine also comes in tablet form, commonly known as ‘Ya ba’. Most of 
these tablets found in Singapore are marked with the ‘WY’ logo and are green or 
orange in colour.

Methamphetamine is highly addictive and is a strong stimulant. It has a very strong 
and dangerous effect on the central nervous system.

2
Methamphetamine    
(also known as ‘Ice’, Glass, Crystal, Speed, ‘Ya ba’, ‘Quartz’,  
‘Ice Cream’, ‘Hirropon’, Shabu, Syabu)

Withdrawal Symptoms

• 	 Extreme tiredness and hunger

• 	 Anxiety, depression and irritability

• 	 Insomnia (difficulty in sleeping)

Effects

• 	 Increased heart rate and body 
temperature

• 	 Fits, stroke and death

• 	 Damage to heart and nerves

• 	 Liver and kidney diseases

• 	 Abnormal behaviour with mood 
swings, confusion, delusion and 
hallucination

• 	 Anxiety and irritability

19
 

Heroin is a powerful and highly addictive drug that comes in granular, powder or 
liquid form. Abusers feel dull and tired easily and cannot work properly as they are 
unable to focus.

“Chasing the Dragon” is a common method of abuse which involves heating 
Heroin powder and sniffing the fumes through a rolled note.

Effects

• 	 Lowered heart rate and respiration

• 	 Damage to lungs, kidneys and liver

• 	 Fatigue

• 	 Difficulty in concentrating

• 	 Constipation

Withdrawal Symptoms

• 	 Insomnia (difficulty in sleeping)

• 	 Watery eyes and runny nose

• 	 Irritable and jittery feelings

• 	 Tremors and bodily cramps

• 	 Chills and sweating

• 	 Diarrhoea and vomiting

3
Heroin    
(also known as White, Smack, Junk, Powder, Putih, Medicine, Ubat)

20
 

Subutex comes in the form of pills but abusers 
sometimes mix it with other prescription drugs 
and inject it for a greater ‘high’.

4
Buprenorphine    
(also known as Subutex, Tec, SuSu)

Effects

Sedation, light-headedness, dizziness, nausea, constipation, vomiting

Withdrawal Symptoms

• 	 Delirium tremens, clouding of consciousness and severe tremors or seizures

• 	 Anxiety, nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea

• 	 Abdominal cramps, muscle and joint pains

• 	 Insomnia (difficulty in sleeping)

BZP and TFMPP are stimulants of the central nervous system, commonly referred to 
as “party pills” and are known to produce stimulant and hallucinatory effects similar 
to ‘Ecstasy’.

BZP and TFMPP (Piperazines)  
(also known as ‘Party Pills’)

Effects

Seizures, vomiting, heavy sweating, increased body temperature, increased 
heart rate, agitation

Withdrawal Symptoms

• 	 Depression, anger and irritability

• 	 Fatigue (extreme tiredness)

• 	 Insomnia (difficulty in sleeping) 

5

21
 

Cocaine is a white crystalline powder and is a central 
nervous system stimulant and an anaesthetic. Chronic 
abusers are dangerous to the society because of the 
mental abnormalities caused.

6
Cocaine    
(also known as Crack, Coke, Snow)

Effects

Increased heart rate, aggressive behaviour, irritability, nausea, shaking, 
blurred vision, hallucination

Withdrawal Symptoms

•	 Anxiety, depression, anger and jittery feelings

•	 Fatigue (extreme tiredness) 

•	 Nausea and vomiting

• 	 Loss of desire to do things

‘Ecstasy’ tablets come in different colours and 
logos. Often sold in discos, abusers take them to 
enable them to dance all night. Sometimes, they 
die from exhaustion and dehydration.

7
‘Ecstasy’      
(also known as E, Adam, XTC, Pink, 
Pink Lady, Snow White)

Effects

Increased heart rate and blood pressure, jaw clenching, teeth grinding and 
uncontrollable shaking, kidney, liver and brain damage, long-term memory 
loss, chills, sweating and vomiting, inability to think properly, hallucination

Withdrawal Symptoms

• 	 Anxiety, depression and uncontrollable fear

• 	 Insomnia (difficulty in sleeping)

• 	 Loss of control of senses and reality 

22
 

Ketamine is a painkiller for veterinary and human use. 
It takes the form of a white crystalline powder, liquid or 
tablet. Ketamine is now common at dance or ‘rave’ parties.

9
Ketamine      
(also known as K, Special K, Vitamin K, Kit Kat)

Effects

Inability to move, distorted judgement, perception, hearing, sight, touch, 
smell and taste, confusion and hallucination, nose bleeding, inability to smell 
properly, gastric pains, urinary and bladder problems

Withdrawal Symptoms

• 	 Depression, anger and irritability

• 	 Fatigue (extreme tiredness) 

• 	 Insomnia (difficulty in sleeping)

The sniffing of vapours or fumes from substances such as glue and 
paint thinners is known as inhalant abuse. The abuse affects the 
growth and development of muscles, nerves and organs. Abusers 
may die from suffocation anytime, known as Sudden Sniffing Death.

8
Inhalants   
(also known as Glue-Sniffing, Solvent 
Abuse, Solvent Inhalation, Solvent Sniffing, 
Stim Gum)

Effects

Permanent damage to brain, liver and kidneys, prone to bleeding and 
bruises, memory loss, difficulty in learning and seeing things clearly, loss of 
control of body, cramps, pains and bad cough

Withdrawal Symptoms

•	 Anxiety, depression and irritability

•	 Aggressive behaviour 

•	 Dizziness, shaking and nausea 

•	 Insomnia (difficulty in sleeping) 

23
 

Mephedrone is a stimulant and marketed as a substitute 
to ‘Ecstasy’ and amphetamines. Mephedrone abuse is 
known to cause cravings and dependence.

11
Mephedrone   
(also known as Bubbles, Mcat, Snow, Meow)

Effects

Dizziness, nausea, chills, teeth grinding, insomnia, hallucination

LSD is often sold on blotting paper with colourful 
designs. Although abusers generally take it orally, tabs of 
blotting paper are also placed on skin areas that absorb 
into the bloodstream e.g. under the eyelid.

10
Lysergide (LSD)    
(also known as Acid, Trips, Blotters, Tabs, 
Stamp, Black Sesame, Seed, Micro, Micro Dot)

Effects

Increased heart rate, breathing, body temperature, numbness, distorted 
sight, hearing, smell, touch, taste, loss of control of thoughts, severe panic, 
confusion, hallucination and irrational fear

Withdrawal Symptoms

• 	 Increased heart rate, breathing  
and body temperature

• 	 Numbness

• 	 Distorted sight, hearing, smell,  
touch and taste

Withdrawal Symptoms

• 	 Dizziness

• 	 Nausea

• 	 Chills

• 	 Teeth grinding

• 	 Insomnia

• 	 Hallucinations

• 	 Loss of control of thoughts

• 	 Severe panic, paranoia, confusion 
and hallucination

24
 

‘Erimin-5’ is a type of depressant taken in tablet form. 
Depressants are drugs which make a person calm down and 
sleep. However, excessive use will lead to harmful effects.

13
Nimetazepam    
(also known as ‘Erimin-5’)

Effects

Unconsciousness, distorted judgement, sight and thinking, difficulty in speaking, 
moving and co-ordinating bodily functions, poor memory and concentration

Withdrawal Symptoms

• 	 Anxiety and jittery feelings

• 	 Insomnia (difficulty in sleeping)

•	 Nausea, vomiting, quickened heart 
beat, excessive sweating, violent 
shaking and stomach cramps

NPS contain ingredients which mimic the same effects as 
drugs such as ‘Ice’ or Cannabis. NPS have unknown and 
dangerous toxicology effects and are as addictive and 
harmful as controlled drugs.

12
New Psychoactive Substances (NPS)   
(also known as Spice, K2, Bath Salts, Kronic,  
Bromo-Dragonfly)

Effects

Severe intoxications, severe toxic reaction leading to death, paranoia, 
hallucination, adverse cardiovascular problems, renal failure, seizures

Withdrawal Symptoms

• 	 Rapid heart rate

• 	 Vomiting

• 	 Violent behaviour

• 	 Insomnia

• 	 Paranoia

• 	 Seizure

• 	 High blood pressure

•	 Mental confusion

•	 Fits

25
 

Drug 
Laws

The Misuse of Drugs Act (MDA)

The MDA makes drug possession or 
consumption an offence punishable with a 
fine not exceeding $20,000 or imprisonment 
not exceeding 10 years or both. Recalcitrant 
abusers face long- term imprisonment and 
caning. However, first and second time 
abusers are given the chance to undergo 
treatment and rehabilitation at Drug 
Rehabilitation Centres (DRC). 

Those who traffic drugs to young (anyone 
below 21 years old) or vulnerable persons 
will face stiffer punishment. Similarly, 
harsher punishments apply to those who 
recruit young or vulnerable persons into 
drug trafficking.

All New Psychoactive Substances (NPS) are 
listed as Class A controlled drugs under 
the First Schedule. The consumption and 
possession, importation and exportation, 
trafficking and manufacturing of these 
substances will hence constitute an offence 
under the MDA. At the same time, a new 
list of substances was listed in the Fifth 
Schedule. 

CONSUMPTION OF CONTROLLED 
DRUGS OUTSIDE SINGAPORE
Drug consumption is an offence 
regardless of where the drug is consumed. 
Singaporeans and Permanent Residents 
who are found to have consumed illegal 
substances outside Singapore will be dealt 
with the same penalty as if that offence had 
been committed in Singapore.

LONG-TERM IMPRISONMENT
Although the drug situation is under 
control, there is still a serious problem of 
some drug abusers not being able to kick 
the habit after going through repeated DRC 
treatments. To deal with unrepentant drug 
addicts, the Government is subjecting them 
to long-term imprisonment instead of  
DRC treatment.

MISUSE OF DRUGS ACT (MDA)

• 	 If a person takes drugs;

• 	 If a person sells drugs;

• 	 If drugs found on a person

The person could be jailed  
for up to 30 years, and  
subjected to caning of  
up to 15 strokes.

26
 

Objectives of Long-Term Imprisonment

• 	 To provide greater security and safety to 
the rest of the society

• 	 To deter individuals from continuing to 
abuse drugs

• 	 To reduce the crimes committed by  
drug addicts

Who are affected?

Hard-core addicts of Buprenorphine, 
Cannabis, Cocaine, ‘Ecstasy’, Heroin, 
Ketamine, Methamphetamine, Morphine, 
Nimetazepam and Opium.

Hard-core drug addicts shall be subjected 
to these penalties:

• 	 Long-Term Imprisonment 1 (LT1)
(Between 5 and 7 years of imprisonment, 
and 3 to 6 strokes of the cane)

• 	 Long-Term Imprisonment 2 (LT2) 
(Between 7 and 13 years of imprisonment, 
and 6 to 12 strokes of the cane)

	
Those who have been through LT1 once 
will serve LT2 for subsequent offence of 
the consumption of the above.

You may refer to the following links for  
more information:

• 	 Singapore Statutes Online on MDA 
(statutes.agc.gov.sg)

• 	 CNB Website (cnb.gov.sg)

The Intoxicating Substances Act

The Intoxicating Substances Act is the main 
legislation governing inhalant offences. 
Intoxicating substances refer to substances 
that give off vapours and fumes, such as 
glue and paint thinner. The sniffing of such 
substances is known as inhalant abuse, 
commonly referred to as glue-sniffing, 
solvent abuse, solvent inhalation and 

solvent-sniffing. This law deals with both 
inhalant abusers and suppliers, and spells 
out the offences in relation to inhaling or 
abusing, as well as supplying or offering to 
supply intoxicating substances.

The Act makes inhalant abuse an offence 
punishable with a fine not exceeding 
S$2,000 or imprisonment not exceeding  
6 months or both.

The Act also deals with shopkeepers 
suspected to be supplying intoxicating 
substances to abusers. It makes the selling 
or offering to sell an intoxicating substance, 
for the purpose of intoxication, an offence 
under the law. This offence is punishable 
by a fine not exceeding S$5,000 or 
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 
2 years or both.

FACT NOT FICTION!

• 	 It is an offence to consume illegal 
drugs overseas. 

• 	 All Singaporeans/Permanent 
Residents  found to have consumed 
illegal substances, EVEN OUTSIDE 
SINGAPORE, will face the penalty 
of IMPRISONMENT of up to 
10 years, FINE not exceeding 
S$20,000, or BOTH. 

!

27
 

DRUG  
REHABILITATION

Youth

Options

I SUSPECT MY CHILD IS TAKING 
DRUGS. WHAT DO I DO?

If a parent suspects his/her child is 
abusing drugs, call the CNB’s 24-hour 
helpline at 1800-325-6666 for advice. 
CNB will then work with you and 
your child to decide the appropriate 
follow-up action.

Pathway for 
Youth Drug Abusers

Youth drug abusers will be placed on 
suitable rehabilitation programmes 
depending on their risk profiles. Risk 
assessments are conducted by trained 
psychologists to assess the abuser’s 
likelihood of drug reoffending. The 
abuser’s risk profile will determine the 
type of rehabilitation programme that 
will be administered.

FIRST-TIME
YOUNG
ABUSERS
(aged below  
21 years old)

YOUTH ENHANCED SUPERVISION (YES) SCHEME
• 	 Counselling & case work by Social Service Agencies
• 	 Urine testing at separate venue (Young Person Reporting Centre)

COMMUNITY REHABILITATION CENTRE (CRC)
• 	 Residential component after 1 week in DRC
• 	 Allowed education or employment
• 	 Compulsory counselling after work/school

DRUG REHABILITATION CENTRE (DRC)
• 	 Initial Detoxification Phase
• 	 Compulsory rehab & counselling

SUPERVISION 
ORDER
• 	 Urine testing 
at Young 
Person 
Reporting 
Centre

LOW RISK

HIGH RISK

MODERATE RISK

28
 

A youth drug abuser who is tested positive 
in the urine test may be emplaced on one 
of three rehabilitation programmes: the 
Youth Enhanced Supervision (YES) Scheme 
for low risk abusers, the Community 
Rehabilitation Centre (CRC) for moderate-
risk abusers or the Drug Rehabilitation 
Centre (DRC) for high-risk abusers.

No criminal record will be registered 
against youths who are committed to a DRC.

REHABILITATION PATHWAYS  
FOR YOUTHS

YOUTH ENHANCED SUPERVISION 
(YES) SCHEME
The YES scheme comprises weekly or  
bi-weekly urine reporting for up to 2 years. 
Supervisees will go through counselling  
and casework administered by social 
workers over a period of 6 months. Families 
are also engaged as strong family support 
is an important part of the scheme.

COMMUNITY REHABILITATION CENTRE 
(CRC)
Youth abusers under the 12-month CRC 
regime will first complete a short detention 
at the DRC. They are then placed on a 
6-month residential phase at the CRC. 
Abusers continue to study or work in the 
day and return to the CRC in the evenings. 
They undergo drug intervention and life-
skills programmes which inculcate pro-
social values. These programmes, together 
with casework and counselling, help them 
resist the temptation to abuse drugs and 
reject negative peer influence. Families of 
abusers are encouraged to visit regularly  
at the CRC, get involved in programmes 
and familiarise themselves with post-
release routine.

Upon successful completion of the CRC 
phase, abusers will be electronically tagged 
and placed on supervised home leave for 
6 months. The youths continue to receive 
counselling and guidance from SPS’ 
counsellors to ensure they keep away  
from drugs.

DRUG REHABILITATION CENTRE (DRC)
The DRC regime lasts up to 36 months, 
depending on whether youths are first 
or second-time abusers, their risk levels, 
progress in rehabilitation as well as their 
conduct and behaviour. The regime 
comprises residential in-care and structured 
aftercare phases. Abusers receive 
differentiated in-care rehabilitation and 
counselling programmes to address their 
criminogenic needs and addiction issues in 
the DRC. During the aftercare phase, they 
are closely supervised and undergo a regime 
to facilitate their reintegration into society.

ANTI-DRUG COUNSELLING AND 
ENGAGEMENT PROGRAMME FOR 
YOUTHS (ACE)
CNB introduced a structured 
rehabilitation programme with the 
National Addictions Management 
Service (NAMS) in 2015. The 
programme, Anti-Drug Counselling 
and Engagement Programme (ACE), 
will equip youths with skills to cope 
with addiction and involve parents to 
provide support and supervision for 
their children.

ACE will be conducted through 
counselling sessions over a 3-month 
period. It will equip youths with skills 
to lead a drug-free lifestyle through 
experiential learning, support and 
guidance. There will also be a workshop 
for parents to equip them with 
knowledge and skills to support their 
children. Parental support will be critical 
for the success of this programme.

32
 

Helplines

Numbers 
at Your Finger-Tips!

Parents can contact the CNB hotline at 1800 325 6666  
for advice and assistance if you suspect or are worried  
that your child may be involved with drugs. CNB will work  
with the parent and interview the youth before determining  
the appropriate follow-up action after a complete assessment  
and investigation.

Central Narcotics Bureau (CNB)

Tel No:1800-325-6666 

Website: www.cnb.gov.sg

To help youth know more about the harms and dangers of drugs and how to stay  
drug-free, CNB works closely with schools and community organisations to offer  
preventive drug education. For updates on anti-drug information and events, or 
collaborations, parents may contact the Preventive Education Unit or National Addictions 
Management Service as follows:

Preventive Education Unit (PEU)

• 	 Those who wish to know about preventive drug education news, anti-drug 
articles, activities and events.

	
www.cnb.gov.sg/events

	
www.cnb.gov.sg/cnbpde

	
https://www.facebook.com/CNB.DrugFreeSG/

• 	 Those who wish to watch anti-drug videos.

 	 https://www.youtube.com/user/cnb.drugfreesg

•	 Organisations can write in to CNB at:

	
CNB_Preventive_Education_Unit@cnb.gov.sg for free preventive 
drug education talks or apply to join as an Anti-drug Advocate  
United Against Drugs.

National Addictions Management Service (NAMS)

	
Tel: 6-RECOVER (6732 6837) 
(Mon-Thu: 8.30am-5.30pm, Fri: 8.30am-5.00pm)
www.nams.sg

YouTube 

cnb.drugfreesg

Snapchat 

cnb.drugfreesg

33
 

SUPPORT A DRUG-FREE SG

Do your part and help promote  

CNB.DrugFreeSG  
and up the reach for CNB’s social media platforms!

Facebook

CNB Drug Free SG 

Instagram 

cnb.drugfreesg

