HANDBOOK

PREVENTIVE DRUG EDUCATION

What you need to know about Singapore's drug policy and laws, 

and how you can help others stay away from drugs

02

RECEIVING THIS HANDBOOK?
WHY AM I

The Central Narcotics Bureau (CNB) seeks your support in our common vision
for a drug-free Singapore.

Singapore's proximity to the world's largest drug-producing region continues
to pose a significant threat to our society. The harms of drugs are extensive
and real - they don't just affect your mind and body, but also the people
around you. Livelihoods are lost, relationships are destroyed, and those who
grow up in a home environment of a drug abuser suffer. The wider community
is also affected because drug abuse often leads to other crimes being
committed. 

This handbook, together with the accompanying deck of PowerPoint slides
and set of FAQs, has been designed to help you share within your
organisation and spheres of influence what the public needs to know about
Singapore's drug policy and laws, and how collectively we can help Singapore
remain drug-free. 

We hope you find this set of resources useful. Let's work together towards a
drug-free society!

This handbook contains the following information:

01     Singapore's Drug Policy - Why Singapore is Tough on Drugs
02     Laws in Place to Help Us
03     Singapore's Drug Law - Misuse of Drugs Act 1973
04     Commonly Abused Drugs and Their Effects
05     How Can I Help My Friends and Loved Ones?
06     What Should I Do If....?
07      Making a Report to CNB
08     Contacts and Helplines
09     Resources

Pg 03
Pg 05
Pg 09 
Pg 12
Pg 17
Pg 19
Pg 20
Pg 21
Pg 22

Youths today tend to have more
liberal views towards drugs, which is
largely influenced by the internet and
social media

Youths may be more willing to
experiment with cannabis, which is
misperceived as a "soft and cool" drug

There is a widespread misinformation
on drugs on the internet, which
downplays or dismiss the harms of
cannabis

Stress, curiosity and external
influence are common reasons
cited by youths for taking drugs 

did you know?

Singapore aims to create a drug-free society where our people can work, live
and play safely. 

Our strict laws against drug traffickers serve as an effective deterrent in
keeping foreign syndicates out of Singapore and in deterring Singaporeans
from engaging in drug activities. Our laws are designed to ensure harmful
drugs are kept out of the easy reach of most people especially youths, while
enforcement efforts are focused on tackling drug supply and dismantling
syndicates. Our approach may be seen to be tough, but it places the welfare
of the abuser and the society at the centre of our policies. 

Singapore, being an open and well-
connected country, is not immune to
external influence and the worldwide
movement for the legalisation and
decriminalisation 
of 
cannabis.

Singaporeans may be more accepting
of drugs as a lifestyle choice. 

03

WHY SINGAPORE IS TOUGH ON DRUGS

SINGAPORE'S
DRUG POLICY

Legalisation and normalisation of
drug use in Singapore will result in
children becoming exposed to drugs
and the negative consequences of
growing 
up 
in 
a 
neglected

environment. Drug abuse harms the
abuser, those around him and has
larger implications on society.

It is not as simple as a personal choice as it bears repercussions both at an
individual and societal standpoint. 

did you know?

Drug addiction impairs parenting, causing child neglect

Children face increased risk of inter-generational drug
contamination

Drug addiction causes social exclusion

Risk of drug-influenced driving - due to impaired perception,
attention, cognition, co-ordination and reaction time

Drug-related crime - committed under influence of drugs or
resorting to criminal activities to financially sustain drug habit 

Visits to hospitals - due to overdoses, adverse reactions,
psychotic episodes and spread of diseases such as HIV/AIDS
and hepatitis B and C

Damage to environment - illicit disposal of precursor
chemicals and cultivation of coca bush and opium resulting in
forest clearance

04

As human resource is Singapore's most precious asset, we cannot allow drugs
to take hold of our society. It is thus important to reinforce the national
consensus of zero tolerance towards drug abuse.

That is why we need your help to spread the anti-drug message in your
circles of influence and get our community to stay resilient against drug
abuse!

Drug addiction weakens family structures - addiction issues
disrupt normal family life and may lead to family disintegration 

Drug abuse also inflicts immeasurable harm on public health and
safety. There are costs which are borne by the rest of society
such as: 

Source: International Narcotics Control Board, 2013)

Many people have the misperception that if they tell CNB of their suspicion
that their family or friends are taking drugs, they will be sending their loved
ones to jail.

05

IN PLACE TO HELP US
LAWS

Rehabilitation and aftercare form one
of 
Singapore's 
multi-pronged 
drug

control strategies to help drug abusers
return 
to 
a 
drug-free 
life 
and

reintegrate into our society.

The various intervention pathways and
our 
laws 
against 
drug 
abuse 
are

evidence-based and aimed at helping
drug abusers better deal with their drug

addiction problem. Our criminal justice system focuses a lot on youth
rehabilitation because as far as possible, we want to give youth abusers a
chance to turn over a new leaf, so that they do not ruin the rest of their lives.
We want to intervene early and effectively, to allow them to continue to
study and be with their families where possible.

It is thus important that these individuals seek help so that we can engage
them in the appropriate intervention programmes early. 

Where do adult drug abusers go when caught?

Drug abusers may be placed directly on the Drug Supervision Scheme or
admitted to the Drug Rehabilitation Centre (DRC) for treatment and
rehabilitation. However, if the drug abusers are under investigation for other
drug or criminal offences, they will be charged in court under the Misuse of
Drugs Act 1973.

The pathways of recovery depend on the abusers' assessed risk of
reoffending. 

06

Rehabilitation and supervision for adults caught for the first time, purely for drug consumption offences

Rehabilitation and supervision for adults caught multiple times for drug consumption offences

Drug abusers who are caught for the first time and are assessed to have low
risk of reoffending are served with an EDSO. The EDSO was introduced in
2019 as part of Misuse of Drugs Act amendments, to help strenghten the
reintegration of abusers into society.

Supervisees under the EDSO do not go to DRC. They will be assigned to a
community case manager by Singapore Anti-Narcotics Association (SANA) to
support them and their family in the rehabilitation. They are allowed to stay
at their place of residence during the period of supervision but will be
required to attend compulsory counselling sessions and undergo urine tests.
The counselling sessions involve psychology-based methods such as goal-
setting and family engagement. Supervisees are assessed regularly during
their rehabilitation journey and the interventions are adjusted accordingly
based on their progress.

07

Enhanced Direct Supervision Order (EDSO) for first-time, low-risk
adult abusers

Drug Rehabilitation Centre for repeat and/or high-risk abusers

Drug abusers with moderate or higher risk of relapse, or who are repeat
abusers will undergo rehabilitation at a DRC. To help abusers rehabilitate and
reintegrate into society, abusers who successfully complete their DRC regime
will not have a criminal record. This applies only if they are not under
investigation for any other drug or criminal offence for which they may be
charged in court. In such an instance, the abuser may also be charged in court
for drug consumption and if found guilty, will have a criminal record.

In the DRC, they receive intensive rehabilitation carried out by Singapore
Prisons Service (SPS) where the type of programme, intensity and duration of
rehabilitation varies according to individuals' rehabilitation needs. This
includes psychological-based intervention programmes that target drug use
habits, family programmes that equip inmates with relationship skills, as well
as vocational and employability skills training to support ex-abusers in their
reintegration into society. 

The DRC separates abusers by risk of reoffending and age and treatment and
rehabilitation would be for 12 months or more. In 2019, in order to help pure
drug abusers reintegrate back into society, the rehabilitation regime was
enhanced and extended to repeat pure drug abusers who were third timers
and above. 

Post-release, abusers undergo hair and/or urine supervision to detect and
deter relapse.

08

Staying drug-free can be tough and supervision can help keep drug
abusers from a relapse

All drug abusers caught after 1 August 2019 for drug consumption are issued
Supervision Orders and placed on the Drug Supervision Scheme for five
years.

As a supervisee, they undergo regular mandatory urine tests. Such regular
checks help deter relapse and allow for early intervention if they do relapse.
Supervisees who do well on supervision may be allowed to do hair analysis
tests which offer longer periods in between checks, however, this privilege
may be withdrawn should supervisees fail to observe the terms of the
supervision order.

This 5-year supervision order is to help abusers kick the drug habit and
develop a drug-free lifestyle. 

09

SINGAPORE'S DRUG LAWS

THE MISUSE OF DRUGS ACT 1973

The Misuse of Drugs Act 1973 (MDA 1973) is an Act for the control of
dangerous or otherwise harmful drugs and substances and for the purposes
connected therewith. 

UNDER MDA 1973, IT IS AN OFFENCE
OFFENCE
OFFENCE TO -  

Traffic controlled drugs; 

Possess and consume controlled drugs; 

Consume controlled drugs outside of Singapore 
(as a result of positive urine test);

Possess drug paraphernalia; and

Allow and facilitate drug activities

10

Possession and consumption of controlled drugs

Trafficking in controlled drugs

Sec 8a of the MDA 1973 - it shall be an offence to be in possession of a
controlled drug. If found to be in possession of a controlled drug, a person
shall be liable for imprisonment of up to 10 years, or a fine not exceeding
S$20,000, or both.

Sec 8b of the MDA 1973 - it shall be an offence to consume, smoke or
administer a controlled or specified drug in Singapore. If found to have
consumed a controlled or specified drug, a person shall be liable for
imprisonment of up to 10 years, or a fine not exceeding S$20,000, or both.

Section 5 of the MDA 1973 - it shall be an offence to be involved in trafficking
in a controlled drug (i.e. selling, giving, administering, sending, transporting,
delivering, distributing), or even offering to do any of these acts on behalf of
another person, regardless of whether that person is in Singapore. Depending
on the class and quantity of the drug trafficked, the penalty ranges from
imprisonment and caning to the mandatory death penalty.

Responsibilities of owners, tenants, etc.

Consumption of drugs outside Singapore

Contaminative behaviours that facilitate or
promote drug use

11

Introduce a person to a drug trafficker

Teach or provide information on drug-relatated activities to others

Disseminate information on drug-related activities (e.g. sharing of
information on group chat, making a Facebook post, etc.)

Arrange 
or 
plan 
gatherings 
where 
controlled 
drugs 
are 
to 
be

consumed/trafficked
Expose a child (any person below 16 y/o) to drugs

Possession of pipes, utensils, etc.

Sec 11 of the MDA 1973 - it shall be an offence for a person being the owner,
tenant, occupier or person-in charge of any place or premises to allow drug
activities (i.e. consumption, trafficking, manufacturing, etc.) to be conducted
in the place or premises. 

Sec 8A of the MDA 1973 - it shall be an offence for a Singapore Citizen and
Permanent Resident, if found as a result of a positive urine test, to consume a
controlled drug or specified drug outside of Singapore. If found, as a result of
a positive urine test, to have consumed a controlled drug or specified drug
outside of Singapore, a person may be dealt with as if the offence had been
committed within Singapore. 

Sec 9 of the MDA 1973 - it shall be an offence to be in possession of any pipe,
syringe, utensil or apparatus or any articles intended for the smoking,
administration or consumption of a controlled drug. If found to be in
possession of articles for the purpose of drug-taking, a person shall be liable
for imprisonment of up to 3 years, or a fine not exceeding S$10,000 or both. 

Sec 11A, 11B, 11C and 11D of the MDA 1973 - it shall be an offence to:

WITHDRAWAL

SYMPTOMS

EFFECTS &

DANGERS

12

COMMONLY ABUSED DRUGS

AND THEIR EFFECTS

The most commonly abused drugs in Singapore are Methamphetamine,
Cannabis, Heroin, Ecstasy, New Psychoactive Substances (NPS) and
Lysergide (LSD). These drugs are highly addictive and harmful to the human
body and mind. 

METHAMPHETAMINE
METHAMPHETAMINE

a.k.a. 'Ice', Glass, Crystal, Speed, 'Ya Ba', 'Quartz', 'Hirropon', Shabu, Syabu

Methamphetamine usually comes in the form
of a colourless and odourless crystal that
resembles glass fragments or shiny bluewhite
"rocks" of various sizes. It also comes in tablet
form and is known as 'Crazy Horse Pill' or 'Ya
Ba'. Most of the 'Ya Ba' tablets found in
Singapore are embossed with the 'WY' logo and
are green or orange in colour.  

Methamphetamine is highly addictive and is a strong stimulant. It has a very
strong effect on the central nervous system. 

Increased heart rate and body
temperature
Fits, stroke and death
Damage to heart and nerves
Liver and kidney diseases
Abnormal behavior with mood
swings, confusion, delusion and
hallucination
Anxiety and irritability 

Extreme tiredness and hunger
Anxiety, 
depression 
and

irritability
Insomnia 

WITHDRAWAL

SYMPTOMS

Moodiness 
Irritability
Anxiety
Tension

Inability to concentrate 
Distorted thinking and perception
Slow reaction, poor balance and co-ordination
Extreme anxiety, depression, confusion and paranoia 
Especially harmful to youths - linked to impairment in teenage brain 

EFFECTS & DANGERS

13

CANNABIS
CANNABIS
a.k.a. Marijuana, Pot, Grass, Joints, Ganja, Hashish, Weed

Cannabis looks like dried herbs or tea leaves. It
can come in the form of candies too. It contains
a chemical, tetrahydrocannabinol, that affects
one's mood and the way one sees and hears
things. Cannabis affects concentration and
memory, weakening one's ability to learn.

In Colarado, traffic deaths where the
driver was found to have abused cannabis
spiked by 109% since recreational
marijuana was legalised

There is consistent evidence linking cannabis
use to the development of major
psychiatric conditions - schizophrenia,
bipolar disorder and depression

Cannabis is addictive. Among those who
use cannabis, about 1 in 10 will develop
dependence. This increases to 1 in 2 among
those who use cannabis daily

Cannabis abuse increases the risk of a
fatal accident by two- to seven-fold due
to impaired attention and reaction time

did you know?
development, 
lower

psychomotor skills, and
development 
of

psychiatric 
conditions

such as schizophrenia
and cognitive decline in
IQ

Although there is some published research on the potential
therapeutic uses of cannabinoids to manage seizures and
epilepsy, there is still a lack of sufficient evidence to prove
the effectiveness of cannabis use for medical conditions. There
are also no studies which have validated claims of
unprocessed or raw cannabis being able to treat medical
conditions.

There are strict frameworks in place for the supply,
prescription and dispensation of controlled drugs used for
medical purposes in Singapore. All such drugs must be
prescribed by a Singapore doctor and must be prescribed for
the medical condition registered with the HSA. Cannabinoid
pharmaceuticals need to undergo rigorous scientific review by
the Health Sciences Authority (HSA) before they can be
registered for supply in Singapore.

The use of cannabinoids has to be weighed against its
potential side effects, due to the scarce lack of information
on their long-term safety and efficacy. There are other
currently available treatment options for these conditions,
with comparable efficacy.

In Singapore, drug control policies are underpinned by evidence
and research. Although regulators allow safe and controlled
access to evidence-based medical treatment options, cannabis
remains an illicit drug. 

Cannabis for Medical Use

14

HEROIN
HEROIN
a.k.a. White, Smack, Junk, Powder, Putih, 

Medicine, Ubat

Heroin is a powerful and very addictive drug
that comes in granular, powder or solution form.
It can be whitish or brownish in colour. 

WITHDRAWAL

SYMPTOMS

Insomnia 
Watery eyes and runny nose
Irritable and jittery feelings
Tremors and bodily cramps
Chills and sweating
Diarrhea and vomiting 

Lowered 
heart 
rate 
and

respiration 
Damage to lungs, kidneys and
liver
Dull feeling and tiredness 
Difficulty in concentrating
Constipation 

Ecstasy 
are 
tablets 
containing

Methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA),
Methylenedioxyethylamphetamine 
(MDEA)

and Methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA).
These tablets come in different colours with
different logos stamped on them. People
take them to enable them to dance all night;
sometimes they even die from exhaustion
and dehydration. 

WITHDRAWAL

SYMPTOMS

Anxiety, 
depression 
and

uncontrollable fear
Insomnia

Increased heart rate and blood
pressure 
Hallucination
Kidney, liver and brain damage
Long term memory loss
Chills, sweating and vomiting
Inability to think, see and co-
ordinate properly
Jaw clenching, teeth grinding
and uncontrollable shaking

EFFECTS &

DANGERS

EFFECTS &

DANGERS

15

ECSTASY
ECSTASY a.k.a. 'E', Adam, XTC, Pink Lady, Snow White

16

Severe intoxications
Severe toxic reaction leading to death
Paranoia (irrational fear or suspicion)
Hallucination
Adverse cardiovasculaar problems
Renal failure
Seizures

Numbness 
Loss of control of thoughts 
Distorted sight, hearing, smell, touch and taste 
Increased heart rate, breathing and body temperature 
Severe panic, confusion, hallucination and paranoia 

       (irrational fear or suspicion)

EFFECTS & DANGERS

NEW PSYCHOACTIVE
NEW PSYCHOACTIVE

SUBSTANCE (NPS)
SUBSTANCE (NPS)
a.k.a. Spice, K2, Bath Salts, Kronic, Bromo-Dragonfly

New Psychoactive Substances (NPS) refer to substances that mimic the
effects 
of 
controlled 
drugs 
such 
as 
cannabis, 
cocaine, 
"Ecstasy",

methamphetamine or heroin. NPS have unknown, dangerous toxicology
effects and are as addictive and harmful as controlled drugs. 

  LYSERGIDE (LSD)
LYSERGIDE (LSD)

a.k.a.
Acid, Trips, Blotters, Tabs, Stamp, Black Sesame, Seed, Micro, Micro Dot

Lysergide (LSD) is a hallucinogen. It is often sold on blotting paper, which is
usually imprinted with a colourful cartoon or design. 

EFFECTS & DANGERS

Sudden and extreme mood swings ranging from euphoria to depression. He/she may switch
from being withdrawn and passive one minute to being angry the next.
Overreacting to mild criticism or simple requests
Seeks to manipulate instead of taking responsibility for his/her actions and behaviours
Makes excuses for personal failures - 'It's always someone else's fault!'
Noticeable lack of self-discipline
Anxiety - chronic jerky or jittery movements, extreme fear and obsessive-compulsive
behaviour 
Monetary extremes - possess excessive cash and constant complaints of insufficient
money 
Changes in sleeping patterns
Hostile or argumentative attitude 
Sudden loss of interest in family activities
Irregular sleeping hours or wanting to pursue activities at unusual times
Disappearances for long periods of time

Poor physical appearance
Abnormally pale complexion
Getting sick frequently 
Sudden or dramatic weight loss or gain
Chronic fatigue, lack of energy and vitality
Short-term memory loss and runny nose when allergies are not a problem
Problem with eyes - bloodshot, dilated pupils, droopy eyelids, imprecise eye movements,
wearing dark glasses at inappropriate times
Problems with coordination - dizzy spells, stumbling, shaky
Dramatic appetite changes - sudden lack of appetite to sudden craving and excessive
thirst
Changes in speech and vocabulary patterns - rapid speech, slowed speech, slurred words

Incense or air fresheners used to mask drug smells
Unusual smells on clothing or breath
Unusual containers or wrappers sighted
Prescription medicine missing
Money and valuables missing
Secretive phone calls/phone messages 

Physical signs

Environmental indicators 

Pay attention to your friends and loved ones. Here are some
indications that they may require help.

17

HOW CAN I HELP

MY FRIENDS AND LOVED ONES?

L        k out for indicators

Sudden change in circle of friends
Sudden change in school grades or work performance
Evasive behaviour and/or lying

Behavioural signs

Keep communication open and always listen in a non-judgemental way

Discover his/her talents and encourage him/her to develop them

Find common interests and spend time together 

Suggest healthy group activities and sports he/she can join to widen
their circle of friends and boost self-esteem

Discuss and remind him/her to stay away from drugs

Teach him/her coping skills and refusal tips.

7 tips to stay drug-free:

a) Avoid situations where you might be influenced or pressured to try drugs

b) Be bold - say "no" when you are offered drugs

c) Make a joke and excuse yourself from the situation

d) If all else fails, walking away is the best way to protect yourself

e) Adopt healthy ways to cope with stress - exercising, listening to music, 
   mediation, etc.

f) Pick up a new skill! This is the time for you to learn a new language or sign up 
   for that diving course!

g) Spend your time meaningfully - involve yourself with community work, 
   volunteer and create positive networks

Start your conversations using teachable moments (e.g. news on a well-
known person arrested for drug abuse)

Teach him/her to be discerning readers and take a step back to think
critically when reading information from dubious online sources that
advocate drug use

Communicate

18

19

I suspect someone is involved in drug activities?
You should call CNB at 1800-325-6666

I come across drugs, or what I suspect to be drugs?
You should not touch the items further. Call the Police or

CNB at 1800-325-6666.

I see someone abusing drugs at my workplace?
Call the Police or CNB at 1800-325-6666.

WHAT SHOULD I DO
IF...

20

MAKING A REPORT
TO CNB

What happens if I report a family/friend?

Upon reporting any drug-related information, you will be asked to provide
some details so that our officers can assess the case. All details provided will
be treated with strict confidentiality. CNB will then make an informed
assessment and take early intervention and appropriate measures to assist
you. Your identity will be treated with strict confidentiality.

What happens after my family/friend is arrested?

The person will be brought back to CNB or the police station for investigation
and the person will be dealt with accordance with the law. If suspected to be
a drug abuser, he/she will be subjected to an Instant Urine Test (IUT) or hair
test and interview by a CNB officer.  

The best way to help your friend is to notify CNB so that they can get
professional help soonest to address the drug problem accordingly. Upon
notification, CNB will investigate and recommend the appropriate treatment
and rehabilitation options based on his/her urine test results and risk profile.

You may feel uncertain about notifying the authorities. But remember, you
play an important role in saving your loved ones from falling deeper and
deeper into the dangers of drugs. 

Convincing someone to stop abusing drugs is not easy, and not
everyone takes well to being told about what they should or
should not do, especially if it is coming from a peer.

Those who wish to enquire about
preventive drug education-related
matters 
or 
wish 
to 
explore

collaboration opportunities

CNB_Community_Partnership@cnb.gov.sg

Central Narcotics Bureau
1800-325-6666

Those who wish to report cases
of suspected drug abuse

Singapore Anti-Narcotics Association 
https://talk2sana.com/tools-for-change/live-chat/
6pm to 9.30pm (Mon to Fri)

Those who wish to talk to para-
counsellors about any drug-related
issues that you or someone close to
you might be facing

www.cnb.gov.sg

@CNB.DrugFreeSG

Those who wish to know about
preventive drug education news,
anti-drug articles, activities and
events

To help students know more about the harms and dangers of drugs and how
to stay drug-free, CNB works closely with schools and community
organisations to offer preventive drug education.

21

CONTACTS AND
HELPLINES

CNB.DrugFreeSG

Those who wish to watch anti-
drug videos

FOR WHO?
CONTACT

www.volunteer.gov.sg

Those who wish to join as an
advocate and spread the anti-drug
message.

Those who wish to request for anti-
drug talks, skits and exhibitions at
your school or organisation.

www.eservices.cnb.gov.sg/pde/

CNB's website
Drugs and Inhalants 
Misuse of Drugs Act 1973

CNB's YouTube

to watch

PDE Video: Down the

Rabbit Hole

PDE Video: Last Days

22

RESOURCES

for information

for parents, educators, counsellors

Smart Parenting articles
PDE toolkits
PDE message cards

Information booklet on

Cannabis

Information booklet on

New Psychoactive

Substances (NPS)

